{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl ;\red39\green77\blue192;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa240\cf1\lang9\b\f0\fs64 Psalms\par
\fs32 PSALM 1 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Blessed is the man Who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, Nor stands in the path of sinners, Nor sits in the seat of the scornful; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 But his delight is in the law of the LORD, And in His law he meditates day and night. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, That brings forth its fruit in its \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 season, Whose leaf also shall not wither; And whatever he does shall prosper. \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The ungodly are not so, But are like the chaff which the wind drives away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD knows the way of the righteous, But the way of the ungodly shall perish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 2 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Why do the nations rage, And the people plot a vain thing?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The kings of the earth set themselves, And the rulers take counsel together, Against \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 the LORD and against His Anointed, saying, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 "Let us break Their bonds in pieces And cast away Their cords from us." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He who sits in the heavens shall laugh; The LORD shall hold them in derision. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Then He shall speak to them in His wrath, And distress them in His deep displeasure: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 "Yet I have set My King On My holy hill of Zion." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 "I will declare the decree: The LORD has said to Me, "You are My Son, Today I have begotten You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Ask of Me, and I will give You The nations for Your inheritance, And the ends of the earth for Your possession. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall break them with a rod of iron; You shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel."' \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Now therefore, be wise, O kings; Be instructed, you judges of the earth. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Serve the LORD with fear, And rejoice with trembling. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Kiss the Son, lest He be angry, And you perish in the way, When His wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 3 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 LORD, how they have increased who trouble me! Many are they who rise up against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Many are they who say of me, "There is no help for him in God."Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O LORD, are a shield for me, My glory and the One who lifts up my head. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I cried to the LORD with my voice, And He heard me from His holy hill.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I lay down and slept; I awoke, for the LORD sustained me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people Who have set themselves against me all around. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O LORD; Save me, O my God! For You have struck all my enemies on the cheekbone; You have broken the teeth of the ungodly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Salvation belongs to the LORD. Your blessing is upon Your people.Selah \cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 4 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness! You have relieved me in my distress; Have mercy on me, and hear my prayer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 How long, O you sons of men, Will you turn my glory to shame? How long will you love worthlessness And seek falsehood?Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 But know that the LORD has set apart for Himself him who is godly; The LORD will hear when I call to Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Be angry, and do not sin. Meditate within your heart on your bed, and be still.Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, And put your trust in the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 There are many who say, "Who will show us any good?" LORD, lift up the light of Your countenance upon us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You have put gladness in my heart, More than in the season that their grain and wine increased. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I will both lie down in peace, and sleep; For You alone, O LORD, make me dwell in safety. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 5 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Give ear to my words, O LORD, Consider my meditation.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Give heed to the voice of my cry, My King and my God, For to You I will pray. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 My voice You shall hear in the morning, O LORD; In the morning I will direct it to You, And I will look up. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For You are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness, Nor shall evil dwell with You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The boastful shall not stand in Your sight; You hate all workers of iniquity.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall destroy those who speak falsehood; The LORD abhors the bloodthirsty \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and deceitful man. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 But as for me, I will come into Your house in the multitude of Your mercy; In fear of You I will worship toward Your holy temple. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Lead me, O LORD, in Your righteousness because of my enemies; Make Your way straight before my face. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; Their inward part is destruction; Their throat is an open tomb; They flatter with their tongue. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Pronounce them guilty, O God! Let them fall by their own counsels; Cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions, For they have rebelled against You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 But let all those rejoice who put their trust in You; Let them ever shout for joy, because You defend them; Let those also who love Your name Be joyful in You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 For You, O LORD, will bless the righteous; With favor You will surround him as with a shield. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 6 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD, do not rebuke me in Your anger, Nor chasten me in Your hot displeasure. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Have mercy on me, O LORD, for I am weak; O LORD, heal me, for my bones are \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 troubled. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul also is greatly troubled; But You, O LORD--how long? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Return, O LORD, deliver me! Oh, save me for Your mercies' sake! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For in death there is no remembrance of You; In the grave who will give You thanks? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I am weary with my groaning; All night I make my bed swim; I drench my couch with my tears. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 My eye wastes away because of grief; It grows old because of all my enemies. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity; For the LORD has heard the voice of my \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 weeping.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has heard my supplication; The LORD will receive my prayer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Let all my enemies be ashamed and greatly troubled; Let them turn back and be ashamed suddenly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 7 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD my God, in You I put my trust; Save me from all those who persecute me; And deliver me, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Lest they tear me like a lion, Rending me in pieces, while there is none to deliver. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD my God, if I have done this: If there is iniquity in my hands, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 If I have repaid evil to him who was at peace with me, Or have plundered my enemy without cause, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the enemy pursue me and overtake me; Yes, let him trample my life to the earth, And lay my honor in the dust.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O LORD, in Your anger; Lift Yourself up because of the rage of my enemies; Rise up for me to the judgment You have commanded! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 So the congregation of the peoples shall surround You; For their sakes, therefore, return on high. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD shall judge the peoples; Judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, And according to my integrity within me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, But establish the just; For the righteous God tests the hearts and minds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 My defense is of God, Who saves the upright in heart.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 God is a just judge, And God is angry with the wicked every day. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 If he does not turn back, He will sharpen His sword; He bends His bow and makes it ready. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 He also prepares for Himself instruments of death; He makes His arrows into fiery shafts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, the wicked brings forth iniquity; Yes, he conceives trouble and brings forth falsehood. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 He made a pit and dug it out, And has fallen into the ditch which he made.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 His trouble shall return upon his own head, And his violent dealing shall come down \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 on his own crown. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise the LORD according to His righteousness, And will sing praise to the name of the LORD Most High. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 8 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD, our Lord, How excellent is Your name in all the earth, Who have set Your glory above the heavens! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants You have ordained strength, Because of Your enemies, That You may silence the enemy and the avenger. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 When I consider Your heavens, the work of Your fingers, The moon and the stars, which You have ordained, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 What is man that You are mindful of him, And the son of man that You visit him? \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have made him a little lower than the angels, And You have crowned him \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 with glory and honor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You have made him to have dominion over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 All sheep and oxen-- Even the beasts of the field,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The birds of the air, And the fish of the sea That pass through the paths of the seas. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD, our Lord, How excellent is Your name in all the earth! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 9 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will praise You, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will tell of all Your marvelous works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I will be glad and rejoice in You; I will sing praise to Your name, O Most High. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 When my enemies turn back, They shall fall and perish at Your presence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have maintained my right and my cause; You sat on the throne judging in righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You have rebuked the nations, You have destroyed the wicked; You have blotted out their name forever and ever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 O enemy, destructions are finished forever! And you have destroyed cities; Even their memory has perished. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 But the LORD shall endure forever; He has prepared His throne for judgment.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall judge the world in righteousness, And He shall administer judgment for the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 peoples in uprightness.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, A refuge in times of trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 And those who know Your name will put their trust in You; For You, LORD, have not forsaken those who seek You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing praises to the LORD, who dwells in Zion! Declare His deeds among the people. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 When He avenges blood, He remembers them; He does not forget the cry of the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 humble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Have mercy on me, O LORD! Consider my trouble from those who hate me, You who lift me up from the gates of death, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 That I may tell of all Your praise In the gates of the daughter of Zion. I will rejoice in Your salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 The nations have sunk down in the pit which they made; In the net which they hid, their own foot is caught. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is known by the judgment He executes; The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked shall be turned into hell, And all the nations that forget God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 For the needy shall not always be forgotten; The expectation of the poor shall not \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 perish forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O LORD, Do not let man prevail; Let the nations be judged in Your sight. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Put them in fear, O LORD, That the nations may know themselves to be but men.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 10 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Why do You stand afar off, O LORD? Why do You hide in times of trouble? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked in his pride persecutes the poor; Let them be caught in the plots which they have devised. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For the wicked boasts of his heart's desire; He blesses the greedy and renounces the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked in his proud countenance does not seek God; God is in none of his thoughts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 His ways are always prospering; Your judgments are far above, out of his sight; As for all his enemies, he sneers at them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He has said in his heart, "I shall not be moved; I shall never be in adversity."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression; Under his tongue is trouble \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and iniquity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 He sits in the lurking places of the villages; In the secret places he murders the innocent; His eyes are secretly fixed on the helpless. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He lies in wait secretly, as a lion in his den; He lies in wait to catch the poor; He catches the poor when he draws him into his net. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 So he crouches, he lies low, That the helpless may fall by his strength. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 He has said in his heart, "God has forgotten; He hides His face; He will never see." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O LORD! O God, lift up Your hand! Do not forget the humble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Why do the wicked renounce God? He has said in his heart, "You will not require an account." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 But You have seen, for You observe trouble and grief, To repay it by Your hand. The helpless commits himself to You; You are the helper of the fatherless. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Break the arm of the wicked and the evil man; Seek out his wickedness until You find none. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is King forever and ever; The nations have perished out of His land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, You have heard the desire of the humble; You will prepare their heart; You will cause Your ear to hear, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 To do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, That the man of the earth may oppress no more. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 11 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 In the LORD I put my trust; How can you say to my soul, "Flee as a bird to your mountain"? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For look! The wicked bend their bow, They make ready their arrow on the string, That they may shoot secretly at the upright in heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 If the foundations are destroyed, What can the righteous do?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is in His holy temple, The LORD's throne is in heaven; His eyes behold, \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 His eyelids test the sons of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD tests the righteous, But the wicked and the one who loves violence His soul hates. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Upon the wicked He will rain coals; Fire and brimstone and a burning wind Shall be the portion of their cup. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD is righteous, He loves righteousness; His countenance beholds the upright. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 12 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Help, LORD, for the godly man ceases! For the faithful disappear from among the sons of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 They speak idly everyone with his neighbor; With flattering lips and a double heart they speak. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, And the tongue that speaks proud things, \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Who have said, "With our tongue we will prevail; Our lips are our own; Who is lord \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 over us?" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 "For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, Now I will arise," says the LORD; "I will set him in the safety for which he yearns." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The words of the LORD are pure words, Like silver tried in a furnace of earth, Purified seven times. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall keep them, O LORD, You shall preserve them from this generation forever. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked prowl on every side, When vileness is exalted among the sons of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 13 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 How long, O LORD? Will You forget me forever? How long will You hide Your face from me? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 How long shall I take counsel in my soul, Having sorrow in my heart daily? How long will my enemy be exalted over me? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Consider and hear me, O LORD my God; Enlighten my eyes, Lest I sleep the sleep of death; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Lest my enemy say, "I have prevailed against him"; Lest those who trouble me rejoice when I am moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 But I have trusted in Your mercy; My heart shall rejoice in Your salvation. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I will sing to the LORD, Because He has dealt bountifully with me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 14 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, They have done abominable works, There is none who does good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD looks down from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there are any who understand, who seek God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 They have all turned aside, They have together become corrupt; There is none who does good, No, not one. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, Who eat up my people as they eat bread, And do not call on the LORD? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 There they are in great fear, For God is with the generation of the righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You shame the counsel of the poor, But the LORD is his refuge.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD brings back \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 15 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 LORD, who may abide in Your tabernacle? Who may dwell in Your holy hill?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 He who walks uprightly, And works righteousness, And speaks the truth in his heart; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He who does not backbite with his tongue, Nor does evil to his neighbor, Nor does he take up a reproach against his friend; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 In whose eyes a vile person is despised, But he honors those who fear the LORD; He who swears to his own hurt and does not change; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 He who does not put out his money at usury, Nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 16 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Preserve me, O God, for in You I put my trust.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 O my soul, you have said to the LORD, "You are my Lord, My goodness is nothing \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 apart from You." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 As for the saints who are on the earth, "They are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Their sorrows shall be multiplied who hasten after another god; Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, Nor take up their names on my lips. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD, You are the portion of my inheritance and my cup; You maintain my lot. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places; Yes, I have a good inheritance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 I will bless the LORD who has given me counsel; My heart also instructs me in the night seasons. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I have set the LORD always before me; Because He is at my right hand I shall not be moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices; My flesh also will rest in hope. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For You will not leave my soul in Sheol, Nor will You allow Your Holy One to see \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 corruption. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 You will show me the path of life; In Your presence is fullness of joy; At Your right hand are pleasures forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 17 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear a just cause, O LORD, Attend to my cry; Give ear to my prayer which is not from deceitful lips. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my vindication come from Your presence; Let Your eyes look on the things that are upright. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 You have tested my heart; You have visited me in the night; You have tried me and have found nothing; I have purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Concerning the works of men, By the word of Your lips, I have kept away from the paths of the destroyer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Uphold my steps in Your paths, That my footsteps may not slip.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I have called upon You, for You will hear me, O God; Incline Your ear to me, and \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 hear my speech. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Show Your marvelous lovingkindness by Your right hand, O You who save those who trust in You From those who rise up against them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Keep me as the apple of Your eye; Hide me under the shadow of Your wings, \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 From the wicked who oppress me, From my deadly enemies who surround me. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 They have closed up their fat hearts; With their mouths they speak proudly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 They have now surrounded us in our steps; They have set their eyes, crouching down to the earth, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 As a lion is eager to tear his prey, And like a young lion lurking in secret places. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O LORD, Confront him, cast him down; Deliver my life from the wicked with \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Your sword, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 With Your hand from men, O LORD, From men of the world who have their portion in this life, And whose belly You fill with Your hidden treasure. They are satisfied with children, And leave the rest of their possession for their babes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 As for me, I will see Your face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied when I awake in Your likeness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 18 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will love You, O LORD, my strength.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer; My God, my strength, in \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 whom I will trust; My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised; So shall I be saved from my enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The pangs of death surrounded me, And the floods of ungodliness made me afraid. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The sorrows of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 In my distress I called upon the LORD, And cried out to my God; He heard my voice from His temple, And my cry came before Him, even to His ears. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Then the earth shook and trembled; The foundations of the hills also quaked and were shaken, Because He was angry. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Smoke went up from His nostrils, And devouring fire from His mouth; Coals were kindled by it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He bowed the heavens also, and came down With darkness under His feet. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 And He rode upon a cherub, and flew; He flew upon the wings of the wind. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 He made darkness His secret place; His canopy around Him was dark waters And thick clouds of the skies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 From the brightness before Him, His thick clouds passed with hailstones and coals of fire. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD thundered from heaven, And the Most High uttered His voice, Hailstones and coals of fire. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent out His arrows and scattered the foe, Lightnings in abundance, and He vanquished them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Then the channels of the sea were seen, The foundations of the world were uncovered At Your rebuke, O LORD, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent from above, He took me; He drew me out of many waters.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 He delivered me from my strong enemy, From those who hated me, For they were \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 too strong for me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, But the LORD was my support. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 He also brought me out into a broad place; He delivered me because He delighted in me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has recompensed me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not wickedly departed from my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 For all His judgments were before me, And I did not put away His statutes from me. \cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 I was also blameless before Him, And I kept myself from my iniquity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in His sight. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 With the merciful You will show Yourself merciful; With a blameless man You will show Yourself blameless; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 With the pure You will show Yourself pure; And with the devious You will show Yourself shrewd. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 For You will save the humble people, But will bring down haughty looks. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 For You will light my lamp; The LORD my God will enlighten my darkness. \cf1\up13\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 For by You I can run against a troop, By my God I can leap over a wall. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 As for God, His way is perfect; The word of the LORD is proven; He is a shield to all who trust in Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 For who is God, except the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 It is God who arms me with strength, And makes my way perfect. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 He makes my feet like the feet of deer, And sets me on my high places. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 He teaches my hands to make war, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; Your right hand has held me up, Your gentleness has made me great. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 You enlarged my path under me, So my feet did not slip.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 I have pursued my enemies and overtaken them; Neither did I turn back again till \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 they were destroyed.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 I have wounded them, So that they could not rise; They have fallen under my feet. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have armed me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 You have also given me the necks of my enemies, So that I destroyed those who hated me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 They cried out, but there was none to save; Even to the LORD, but He did not answer them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I beat them as fine as the dust before the wind; I cast them out like dirt in the streets. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; You have made me the head of the nations; A people I have not known shall serve me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 44\cf0\up0\fs26 As soon as they hear of me they obey me; The foreigners submit to me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 45\cf0\up0\fs26 The foreigners fade away, And come frightened from their hideouts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 46\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD lives! Blessed be my Rock! Let the God of my salvation be exalted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 47\cf0\up0\fs26 It is God who avenges me, And subdues the peoples under me; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 48\cf0\up0\fs26 He delivers me from my enemies. You also lift me up above those who rise against me; You have delivered me from the violent man. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 49\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore I will give thanks to You, O LORD, among the Gentiles, And sing praises to Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 50\cf0\up0\fs26 Great deliverance He gives to His king, And shows mercy to His anointed, To David and his descendants forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 19 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament shows His handiwork. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Day unto day utters speech, And night unto night reveals knowledge. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 There is no speech nor language Where their voice is not heard. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Their line has gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world. In them He has set a tabernacle for the sun, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Which is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, And rejoices like a strong man to run its race. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Its rising is from one end of heaven, And its circuit to the other end; And there is nothing hidden from its heat. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul; The testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; The commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; The judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 More to be desired are they than gold, Yea, than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Moreover by them Your servant is warned, And in keeping them there is great reward. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Who can understand his errors? Cleanse me from secret faults.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Keep back Your servant also from presumptuous sins; Let them not have dominion \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 over me. Then I shall be blameless, And I shall be innocent of great transgression. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in Your sight, O LORD, my strength and my Redeemer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 20 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 May the LORD answer you in the day of trouble; May the name of the God of Jacob defend you; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 May He send you help from the sanctuary, And strengthen you out of Zion; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 May He remember all your offerings, And accept your burnt sacrifice.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 May He grant you according to your heart's desire, And fulfill all your purpose. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 We will rejoice in your salvation, And in the name of our God we will set up our banners! May the LORD fulfill all your petitions. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Now I know that the LORD saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With the saving strength of His right hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Some trust in chariots, and some in horses; But we will remember the name of the LORD our God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They have bowed down and fallen; But we have risen and stand upright. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Save, LORD! May the King answer us when we call. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 21 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The king shall have joy in Your strength, O LORD; And in Your salvation how greatly shall he rejoice! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You have given him his heart's desire, And have not withheld the request of his lips.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For You meet him with the blessings of goodness; You set a crown of pure gold upon his head. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He asked life from You, and You gave it to him-- Length of days forever and ever. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 His glory is great in Your salvation; Honor and majesty You have placed upon him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have made him most blessed forever; You have made him exceedingly glad with Your presence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For the king trusts in the LORD, And through the mercy of the Most High he shall not be moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Your hand will find all Your enemies; Your right hand will find those who hate You. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall make them as a fiery oven in the time of Your anger; The LORD shall \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 swallow them up in His wrath, And the fire shall devour them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Their offspring You shall destroy from the earth, And their descendants from among the sons of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 For they intended evil against You; They devised a plot which they are not able to perform. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore You will make them turn their back; You will make ready Your arrows on Your string toward their faces. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Be exalted, O LORD, in Your own strength! We will sing and praise Your power. \cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 22 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me? Why are You so far from helping Me, And from the words of My groaning? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 O My God, I cry in the daytime, but You do not hear; And in the night season, and am not silent. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 But You are holy, Enthroned in the praises of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Our fathers trusted in You; They trusted, and You delivered them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They cried to You, and were delivered; They trusted in You, and were not ashamed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 But I am a worm, and no man; A reproach of men, and despised by the people. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 All those who see Me ridicule Me; They shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 "He trusted in the LORD, let Him rescue Him; Let Him deliver Him, since He delights in Him!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 But You are He who took Me out of the womb; You made Me trust while on My mother's breasts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 I was cast upon You from birth. From My mother's womb You have been My God. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Be not far from Me, For trouble is near; For there is none to help.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Many bulls have surrounded Me; Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled Me. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 They gape at Me with their mouths, Like a raging and roaring lion. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 I am poured out like water, And all My bones are out of joint; My heart is like wax; It has melted within Me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, And My tongue clings to My jaws; You have brought Me to the dust of death. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 For dogs have surrounded Me; The congregation of the wicked has enclosed Me. They pierced My hands and My feet; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 I can count all My bones. They look and stare at Me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 They divide My garments among them, And for My clothing they cast lots. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O LORD, do not be far from Me; O My Strength, hasten to help Me! \cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver Me from the sword, My precious life from the power of the dog. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Save Me from the lion's mouth And from the horns of the wild oxen! You have answered Me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 I will declare Your name to My brethren; In the midst of the assembly I will praise You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 You who fear the LORD, praise Him! All you descendants of Jacob, glorify Him, And fear Him, all you offspring of Israel! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 For He has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; Nor has He hidden His face from Him; But when He cried to Him, He heard. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 My praise shall be of You in the great assembly; I will pay My vows before those who fear Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 The poor shall eat and be satisfied; Those who seek Him will praise the LORD. Let your heart live forever! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 All the ends of the world Shall remember and turn to the LORD, And all the families of the nations Shall worship before You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 For the kingdom is the LORD's, And He rules over the nations.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 All the prosperous of the earth Shall eat and worship; All those who go down to the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 dust Shall bow before Him, Even he who cannot keep himself alive.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 A posterity shall serve Him. It will be recounted of the Lord to the next generation, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 They will come and declare His righteousness to a people who will be born, That He has done this. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 23 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 He makes me to lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside the still waters. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He restores my soul; He leads me in the paths of righteousness For His name's sake. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; For You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; You anoint my head with oil; My cup runs over. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me All the days of my life; And I will dwell in the house of the LORD Forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 24 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The earth is the LORD's, and all its fullness, The world and those who dwell therein. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For He has founded it upon the seas, And established it upon the waters. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Who may ascend into the hill of the LORD? Or who may stand in His holy place? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He who has clean hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, Nor sworn deceitfully. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall receive blessing from the LORD, And righteousness from the God of his salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 This is Jacob, the generation of those who seek Him, Who seek Your face.Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Lift up your heads, O you gates! And be lifted up, you everlasting doors! And the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 King of glory shall come in.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, The LORD mighty in battle. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Lift up your heads, O you gates! Lift up, you everlasting doors! And the King of glory shall come in. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, He is the King of glory.Selah \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 25 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 To You, O LORD, I lift up my soul. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 O my God, I trust in You; Let me not be ashamed; Let not my enemies triumph over me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Indeed, let no one who waits on You be ashamed; Let those be ashamed who deal treacherously without cause. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Show me Your ways, O LORD; Teach me Your paths.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Lead me in Your truth and teach me, For You are the God of my salvation; On You I \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 wait all the day. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember, O LORD, Your tender mercies and Your lovingkindnesses, For they are from of old. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions; According to Your mercy remember me, For Your goodness' sake, O LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Good and upright is the LORD; Therefore He teaches sinners in the way. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The humble He guides in justice, And the humble He teaches His way. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth, To such as keep His covenant and His testimonies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your name's sake, O LORD, Pardon my iniquity, for it is great. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Who is the man that fears the LORD? Him shall He teach in the way He chooses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 He himself shall dwell in prosperity, And his descendants shall inherit the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 The secret of the LORD is with those who fear Him, And He will show them His covenant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 My eyes are ever toward the LORD, For He shall pluck my feet out of the net. \cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Turn Yourself to me, and have mercy on me, For I am desolate and afflicted. \cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The troubles of my heart have enlarged; Bring me out of my distresses! \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Look on my affliction and my pain, And forgive all my sins. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Consider my enemies, for they are many; And they hate me with cruel hatred. \cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Keep my soul, and deliver me; Let me not be ashamed, for I put my trust in You. \cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, For I wait for You.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Redeem Israel, O God, Out of all their troubles! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 26 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Vindicate me, O LORD, For I have walked in my integrity. I have also trusted in the LORD; I shall not slip. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; Try my mind and my heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your lovingkindness is before my eyes, And I have walked in Your truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I have not sat with idolatrous mortals, Nor will I go in with hypocrites. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I have hated the assembly of evildoers, And will not sit with the wicked. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I will wash my hands in innocence; So I will go about Your altar, O LORD, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 That I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving, And tell of all Your wondrous works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, I have loved the habitation of Your house, And the place where Your glory dwells. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not gather my soul with sinners, Nor my life with bloodthirsty men,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 In whose hands is a sinister scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 But as for me, I will walk in my integrity; Redeem me and be merciful to me. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 My foot stands in an even place; In the congregations I will bless the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 27 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The LORD is my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? The LORD is the strength of my life; Of whom shall I be afraid? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 When the wicked came against me To eat up my flesh, My enemies and foes, They stumbled and fell. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Though an army may encamp against me, My heart shall not fear; Though war may rise against me, In this I will be confident. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 One thing I have desired of the LORD, That will I seek: That I may dwell in the house of the LORD All the days of my life, To behold the beauty of the LORD, And to inquire in His temple. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For in the time of trouble He shall hide me in His pavilion; In the secret place of His tabernacle He shall hide me; He shall set me high upon a rock. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me; Therefore I will offer sacrifices of joy in His tabernacle; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice! Have mercy also upon me, and answer me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 When You said, "Seek My face," My heart said to You, "Your face, LORD, I will seek." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not hide Your face from me; Do not turn Your servant away in anger; You have been my help; Do not leave me nor forsake me, O God of my salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 When my father and my mother forsake me, Then the LORD will take care of me. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Teach me Your way, O LORD, And lead me in a smooth path, because of my \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not deliver me to the will of my adversaries; For false witnesses have risen against me, And such as breathe out violence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 I would have lost heart, unless I had believed That I would see the goodness of the LORD In the land of the living. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Wait on the LORD; Be of good courage, And He shall strengthen your heart; Wait, I say, on the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 28 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 To You I will cry, O LORD my Rock: Do not be silent to me, Lest, if You are silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Hear the voice of my supplications When I cry to You, When I lift up my hands toward Your holy sanctuary. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not take me away with the wicked And with the workers of iniquity, Who speak peace to their neighbors, But evil is in their hearts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Give them according to their deeds, And according to the wickedness of their endeavors; Give them according to the work of their hands; Render to them what they deserve. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Because they do not regard the works of the LORD, Nor the operation of His hands, He shall destroy them And not build them up. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD, Because He has heard the voice of my supplications!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is my strength and my shield; My heart trusted in Him, and I am helped; \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Therefore my heart greatly rejoices, And with my song I will praise Him. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is their strength, And He is the saving refuge of His anointed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Save Your people, And bless Your inheritance; Shepherd them also, And bear them up forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 29 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Give unto the LORD, O you mighty ones, Give unto the LORD glory and strength. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Give unto the LORD the glory due to His name; Worship the LORD in the beauty of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 holiness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of the LORD is over the waters; The God of glory thunders; The LORD is over many waters. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of the LORD is powerful; The voice of the LORD is full of majesty. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars, Yes, the LORD splinters the cedars of Lebanon. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He makes them also skip like a calf, Lebanon and Sirion like a young wild ox. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of the LORD divides the flames of fire. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; The LORD shakes the Wilderness of Kadesh. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth, And strips the forests bare; And in His temple everyone says, "Glory!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD sat enthroned at the Flood, And the LORD sits as King forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will give strength to His people; The LORD will bless His people with \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 peace. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 30 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will extol You, O LORD, for You have lifted me up, And have not let my foes rejoice over me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD my God, I cried out to You, And You healed me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD, You brought my soul up from the grave; You have kept me alive, that I \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 should not go down to the pit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing praise to the LORD, you saints of His, And give thanks at the remembrance of His holy name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For His anger is but for a moment, His favor is for life; Weeping may endure for a night, But joy comes in the morning. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Now in my prosperity I said, "I shall never be moved."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, by Your favor You have made my mountain stand strong; You hid Your face, \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and I was troubled.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I cried out to You, O LORD; And to the LORD I made supplication: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 "What profit is there in my blood, When I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your truth? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Hear, O LORD, and have mercy on me; LORD, be my helper!"\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; You have put off my sackcloth \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and clothed me with gladness, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 To the end that my glory may sing praise to You and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to You forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 31 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 In You, O LORD, I put my trust; Let me never be ashamed; Deliver me in Your righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Bow down Your ear to me, Deliver me speedily; Be my rock of refuge, A fortress of defense to save me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For You are my rock and my fortress; Therefore, for Your name's sake, Lead me and guide me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Pull me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me, For You are my strength. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O LORD God of truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I have hated those who regard useless idols; But I trust in the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 I will be glad and rejoice in Your mercy, For You have considered my trouble; You have known my soul in adversities, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 And have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a wide place. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Have mercy on me, O LORD, for I am in trouble; My eye wastes away with grief, Yes, my soul and my body! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For my life is spent with grief, And my years with sighing; My strength fails because of my iniquity, And my bones waste away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 I am a reproach among all my enemies, But especially among my neighbors, And am repulsive to my acquaintances; Those who see me outside flee from me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 I am forgotten like a dead man, out of mind; I am like a broken vessel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For I hear the slander of many; Fear is on every side; While they take counsel together against me, They scheme to take away my life. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 But as for me, I trust in You, O LORD; I say, "You are my God."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 My times are in Your hand; Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, And from \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 those who persecute me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Make Your face shine upon Your servant; Save me for Your mercies' sake. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not let me be ashamed, O LORD, for I have called upon You; Let the wicked be ashamed; Let them be silent in the grave. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the lying lips be put to silence, Which speak insolent things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, how great is Your goodness, Which You have laid up for those who fear You, Which You have prepared for those who trust in You In the presence of the sons of men! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall hide them in the secret place of Your presence From the plots of man; You shall keep them secretly in a pavilion From the strife of tongues. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD, For He has shown me His marvelous kindness in a strong city! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 For I said in my haste, "I am cut off from before Your eyes"; Nevertheless You heard the voice of my supplications When I cried out to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, love the LORD, all you His saints! For the LORD preserves the faithful, And fully repays the proud person. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Be of good courage, And He shall strengthen your heart, All you who hope in the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 32 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, Whose sin is covered. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is the man to whom the LORD does not impute iniquity, And in whose spirit there is no deceit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 When I kept silent, my bones grew old Through my groaning all the day long.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For day and night Your hand was heavy upon me; My vitality was turned into the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 drought of summer.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I acknowledged my sin to You, And my iniquity I have not hidden. I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the LORD," And You forgave the iniquity of my sin.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 For this cause everyone who is godly shall pray to You In a time when You may be found; Surely in a flood of great waters They shall not come near him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You are my hiding place; You shall preserve me from trouble; You shall surround me with songs of deliverance.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will guide you with My eye. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not be like the horse or like the mule, Which have no understanding, Which must be harnessed with bit and bridle, Else they will not come near you. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Many sorrows shall be to the wicked; But he who trusts in the LORD, mercy shall surround him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Be glad in the LORD and rejoice, you righteous; And shout for joy, all you upright in heart! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 33 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Rejoice in the LORD, O you righteous! For praise from the upright is beautiful. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD with the harp; Make melody to Him with an instrument of ten \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 strings.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to Him a new song; Play skillfully with a shout of joy.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For the word of the LORD is right, And all His work is done in truth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the goodness of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, And all the host of them by the breath of His mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap; He lays up the deep in storehouses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Let all the earth fear the LORD; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For He spoke, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; He makes the plans of the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 peoples of no effect.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The counsel of the LORD stands forever, The plans of His heart to all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD, The people He has chosen as His own inheritance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD looks from heaven; He sees all the sons of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 From the place of His dwelling He looks On all the inhabitants of the earth; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 He fashions their hearts individually; He considers all their works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 No king is saved by the multitude of an army; A mighty man is not delivered by great strength. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 A horse is a vain hope for safety; Neither shall it deliver any by its great strength. \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear Him, On those who hope in His \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 mercy,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 To deliver their soul from death, And to keep them alive in famine.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Our soul waits for the LORD; He is our help and our shield.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 For our heart shall rejoice in Him, Because we have trusted in His holy name. \cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your mercy, O LORD, be upon us, Just as we hope in You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 34 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will bless the LORD at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul shall make its boast in the LORD; The humble shall hear of it and be glad. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, magnify the LORD with me, And let us exalt His name together. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I sought the LORD, and He heard me, And delivered me from all my fears. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They looked to Him and were radiant, And their faces were not ashamed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 This poor man cried out, and the LORD heard him, And saved him out of all his troubles. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The angel of the LORD encamps all around those who fear Him, And delivers them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, taste and see that the LORD is good; Blessed is the man who trusts in Him! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, fear the LORD, you His saints! There is no want to those who fear Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The young lions lack and suffer hunger; But those who seek the LORD shall not lack any good thing. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Who is the man who desires life, And loves many days, that he may see good? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Keep your tongue from evil, And your lips from speaking deceit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Depart from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 The eyes of the LORD are on the righteous, And His ears are open to their cry. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The face of the LORD is against those who do evil, To cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous cry out, and the LORD hears, And delivers them out of all their troubles. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is near to those who have a broken heart, And saves such as have a contrite spirit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Many are the afflictions of the righteous, But the LORD delivers him out of them all. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 He guards all his bones; Not one of them is broken. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Evil shall slay the wicked, And those who hate the righteous shall be condemned. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD redeems the soul of His servants, And none of those who trust in Him shall be condemned. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 35 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Plead my cause, O LORD, with those who strive with me; Fight against those who fight against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Take hold of shield and buckler, And stand up for my help.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Also draw out the spear, And stop those who pursue me. Say to my soul, "I am your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 salvation." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Let those be put to shame and brought to dishonor Who seek after my life; Let those be turned back and brought to confusion Who plot my hurt. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be like chaff before the wind, And let the angel of the LORD chase them. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Let their way be dark and slippery, And let the angel of the LORD pursue them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For without cause they have hidden their net for me in a pit, Which they have dug without cause for my life. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Let destruction come upon him unexpectedly, And let his net that he has hidden catch himself; Into that very destruction let him fall. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD; It shall rejoice in His salvation.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 All my bones shall say, "LORD, who is like You, Delivering the poor from him who is \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 too strong for him, Yes, the poor and the needy from him who plunders him?" \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Fierce witnesses rise up; They ask me things that I do not know. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 They reward me evil for good, To the sorrow of my soul.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 But as for me, when they were sick, My clothing was sackcloth; I humbled myself \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 with fasting; And my prayer would return to my own heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 I paced about as though he were my friend or brother; I bowed down heavily, as one who mourns for his mother. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 But in my adversity they rejoiced And gathered together; Attackers gathered against me, And I did not know it; They tore at me and did not cease; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 With ungodly mockers at feasts They gnashed at me with their teeth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Lord, how long will You look on? Rescue me from their destructions, My precious \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 life from the lions.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 I will give You thanks in the great assembly; I will praise You among many people. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them not rejoice over me who are wrongfully my enemies; Nor let them wink with the eye who hate me without a cause. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 For they do not speak peace, But they devise deceitful matters Against the quiet ones in the land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 They also opened their mouth wide against me, And said, "Aha, aha! Our eyes have seen it." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 This You have seen, O LORD; Do not keep silence. O Lord, do not be far from me. \cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Stir up Yourself, and awake to my vindication, To my cause, my God and my Lord. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Vindicate me, O LORD my God, according to Your righteousness; And let them not rejoice over me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them not say in their hearts, "Ah, so we would have it!" Let them not say, "We have swallowed him up." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion Who rejoice at my hurt; Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor Who exalt themselves against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them shout for joy and be glad, Who favor my righteous cause; And let them say continually, "Let the LORD be magnified, Who has pleasure in the prosperity of His servant." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 And my tongue shall speak of Your righteousness And of Your praise all the day long. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 36 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 An oracle within my heart concerning the transgression of the wicked: There is no fear of God before his eyes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For he flatters himself in his own eyes, When he finds out his iniquity and when he hates. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; He has ceased to be wise and to do good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He devises wickedness on his bed; He sets himself in a way that is not good; He does not abhor evil. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Your mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Your righteousness is like the great mountains; Your judgments are a great deep; O \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 LORD, You preserve man and beast. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 How precious is Your lovingkindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of Your wings. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They are abundantly satisfied with the fullness of Your house, And You give them drink from the river of Your pleasures. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For with You is the fountain of life; In Your light we see light.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, continue Your lovingkindness to those who know You, And Your righteousness \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 to the upright in heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Let not the foot of pride come against me, And let not the hand of the wicked drive me away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 There the workers of iniquity have fallen; They have been cast down and are not able to rise. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 37 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Do not fret because of evildoers, Nor be envious of the workers of iniquity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, And wither as the green herb. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Trust in the LORD, and do good; Dwell in the land, and feed on His faithfulness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Delight yourself also in the LORD, And He shall give you the desires of your heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Commit your way to the LORD, Trust also in Him, And He shall bring it to pass. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, And your justice as the noonday. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for Him; Do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, Because of the man who brings wicked schemes to pass. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; Do not fret--it only causes harm.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For evildoers shall be cut off; But those who wait on the LORD, They shall inherit the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For yet a little while and the wicked shall be no more; Indeed, you will look carefully for his place, But it shall be no more. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 But the meek shall inherit the earth, And shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked plots against the just, And gnashes at him with his teeth. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 The Lord laughs at him, For He sees that his day is coming. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked have drawn the sword And have bent their bow, To cast down the poor and needy, To slay those who are of upright conduct. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Their sword shall enter their own heart, And their bows shall be broken.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 A little that a righteous man has Is better than the riches of many wicked.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, But the LORD upholds the righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD knows the days of the upright, And their inheritance shall be forever. \cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 They shall not be ashamed in the evil time, And in the days of famine they shall be \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 satisfied. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 But the wicked shall perish; And the enemies of the LORD, Like the splendor of the meadows, shall vanish. Into smoke they shall vanish away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked borrows and does not repay, But the righteous shows mercy and gives. \cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 For those blessed by Him shall inherit the earth, But those cursed by Him shall be \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 cut off.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD, And He delights in his way. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down; For the LORD upholds him with His hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 I have been young, and now am old; Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, Nor his descendants begging bread. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 He is ever merciful, and lends; And his descendants are blessed. \cf1\up13\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 Depart from evil, and do good; And dwell forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD loves justice, And does not forsake His saints; They are preserved forever, But the descendants of the wicked shall be cut off. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous shall inherit the land, And dwell in it forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, And his tongue talks of justice. \cf1\up13\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 The law of his God is in his heart; None of his steps shall slide.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked watches the righteous, And seeks to slay him.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will not leave him in his hand, Nor condemn him when he is judged. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 Wait on the LORD, And keep His way, And He shall exalt you to inherit the land; When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 I have seen the wicked in great power, And spreading himself like a native green tree. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 Yet he passed away, and behold, he was no more; Indeed I sought him, but he could not be found. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 Mark the blameless man, and observe the upright; For the future of that man is peace. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 But the transgressors shall be destroyed together; The future of the wicked shall be cut off. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 But the salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; He is their strength in the time of trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 And the LORD shall help them and deliver them; He shall deliver them from the wicked, And save them, Because they trust in Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 38 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, Nor chasten me in Your hot displeasure! \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your arrows pierce me deeply, And Your hand presses me down. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 There is no soundness in my flesh Because of Your anger, Nor any health in my bones Because of my sin. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For my iniquities have gone over my head; Like a heavy burden they are too heavy for me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 My wounds are foul and festering Because of my foolishness.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I am troubled, I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For my loins are full of inflammation, And there is no soundness in my flesh. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I am feeble and severely broken; I groan because of the turmoil of my heart. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Lord, all my desire is before You; And my sighing is not hidden from You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 My heart pants, my strength fails me; As for the light of my eyes, it also has gone from me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 My loved ones and my friends stand aloof from my plague, And my relatives stand afar off. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Those also who seek my life lay snares for me; Those who seek my hurt speak of destruction, And plan deception all the day long. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 But I, like a deaf man, do not hear; And I am like a mute who does not open his mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus I am like a man who does not hear, And in whose mouth is no response. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 For in You, O LORD, I hope; You will hear, O Lord my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 For I said, "Hear me, lest they rejoice over me, Lest, when my foot slips, they exalt themselves against me." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 For I am ready to fall, And my sorrow is continually before me. \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 For I will declare my iniquity; I will be in anguish over my sin. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 But my enemies are vigorous, and they are strong; And those who hate me wrongfully have multiplied. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Those also who render evil for good, They are my adversaries, because I follow what is good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not forsake me, O LORD; O my God, be not far from me! \cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 39 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I said, "I will guard my ways, Lest I sin with my tongue; I will restrain my mouth with a muzzle, While the wicked are before me." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I was mute with silence, I held my peace even from good; And my sorrow was stirred up. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 My heart was hot within me; While I was musing, the fire burned. Then I spoke with my tongue: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 "LORD, make me to know my end, And what is the measure of my days, That I may know how frail I am. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Indeed, You have made my days as handbreadths, And my age is as nothing before You; Certainly every man at his best state is but vapor.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely every man walks about like a shadow; Surely they busy themselves in vain; He heaps up riches, And does not know who will gather them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 "And now, Lord, what do I wait for? My hope is in You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me from all my transgressions; Do not make me the reproach of the foolish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I was mute, I did not open my mouth, Because it was You who did it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Remove Your plague from me; I am consumed by the blow of Your hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 When with rebukes You correct man for iniquity, You make his beauty melt away like a moth; Surely every man is vapor.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 "Hear my prayer, O LORD, And give ear to my cry; Do not be silent at my tears; For I am a stranger with You, A sojourner, as all my fathers were. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Remove Your gaze from me, that I may regain strength, Before I go away and am no more." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 40 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I waited patiently for the LORD; And He inclined to me, And heard my cry.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 He also brought me up out of a horrible pit, Out of the miry clay, And set my feet \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 upon a rock, And established my steps. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He has put a new song in my mouth-- Praise to our God; Many will see it and fear, And will trust in the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is that man who makes the LORD his trust, And does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Many, O LORD my God, are Your wonderful works Which You have done; And Your thoughts toward us Cannot be recounted to You in order; If I would declare and speak of them, They are more than can be numbered. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Sacrifice and offering You did not desire; My ears You have opened. Burnt offering and sin offering You did not require. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I said, "Behold, I come; In the scroll of the book it is written of me. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I delight to do Your will, O my God, And Your law is within my heart." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I have proclaimed the good news of righteousness In the great assembly; Indeed, I do not restrain my lips, O LORD, You Yourself know. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 I have not hidden Your righteousness within my heart; I have declared Your faithfulness and Your salvation; I have not concealed Your lovingkindness and Your truth From the great assembly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not withhold Your tender mercies from me, O LORD; Let Your lovingkindness and Your truth continually preserve me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 For innumerable evils have surrounded me; My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up; They are more than the hairs of my head; Therefore my heart fails me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me; O LORD, make haste to help me!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion Who seek to destroy my life; \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor Who wish me evil.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be confounded because of their shame, Who say to me, "Aha, aha!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Let all those who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; Let such as love Your salvation say continually, "The LORD be magnified!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 But I am poor and needy; Yet the LORD thinks upon me. You are my help and my deliverer; Do not delay, O my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 41 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Blessed is he who considers the poor; The LORD will deliver him in time of trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will preserve him and keep him alive, And he will be blessed on the earth; You will not deliver him to the will of his enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will strengthen him on his bed of illness; You will sustain him on his sickbed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I said, "LORD, be merciful to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You." \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 My enemies speak evil of me: "When will he die, and his name perish?" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 And if he comes to see me, he speaks lies; His heart gathers iniquity to itself; When he goes out, he tells it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 All who hate me whisper together against me; Against me they devise my hurt.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 "An evil disease," they say, "clings to him. And now that he lies down, he will rise up \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 no more." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has lifted up his heel against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O LORD, be merciful to me, and raise me up, That I may repay them.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 By this I know that You are well pleased with me, Because my enemy does not \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 triumph over me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 As for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And set me before Your face forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel From everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 42 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 As the deer pants for the water brooks, So pants my soul for You, O God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 God? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 My tears have been my food day and night, While they continually say to me, "Where is your God?" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 When I remember these things, I pour out my soul within me. For I used to go with the multitude; I went with them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise, With a multitude that kept a pilgrim feast. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise Him For the help of His countenance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 O my God, my soul is cast down within me; Therefore I will remember You from the land of the Jordan, And from the heights of Hermon, From the Hill Mizar. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Deep calls unto deep at the noise of Your waterfalls; All Your waves and billows have gone over me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will command His lovingkindness in the daytime, And in the night His song shall be with me-- A prayer to the God of my life. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will say to God my Rock, "Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 As with a breaking of my bones, My enemies reproach me, While they say to me all day long, "Where is your God?" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; For I shall yet praise Him, The help of my countenance and my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 43 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Vindicate me, O God, And plead my cause against an ungodly nation; Oh, deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For You are the God of my strength; Why do You cast me off? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, send out Your light and Your truth! Let them lead me; Let them bring me to Your holy hill And to Your tabernacle. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I will go to the altar of God, To God my exceeding joy; And on the harp I will praise You, O God, my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; For I shall yet praise Him, The help of my countenance and my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 44 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 We have heard with our ears, O God, Our fathers have told us, The deeds You did in their days, In days of old: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You drove out the nations with Your hand, But them You planted; You afflicted the peoples, and cast them out. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For they did not gain possession of the land by their own sword, Nor did their own arm save them; But it was Your right hand, Your arm, and the light of Your countenance, Because You favored them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 You are my King, O God; Command victories for Jacob.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Through You we will push down our enemies; Through Your name we will trample \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 those who rise up against us.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 For I will not trust in my bow, Nor shall my sword save me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 But You have saved us from our enemies, And have put to shame those who hated us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 In God we boast all day long, And praise Your name forever.Selah\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 But You have cast us off and put us to shame, And You do not go out with our \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 armies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 You make us turn back from the enemy, And those who hate us have taken spoil for themselves. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 You have given us up like sheep intended for food, And have scattered us among the nations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 You sell Your people for next to nothing, And are not enriched by selling them. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 You make us a reproach to our neighbors, A scorn and a derision to those all \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 around us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 You make us a byword among the nations, A shaking of the head among the peoples. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 My dishonor is continually before me, And the shame of my face has covered me, \cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Because of the voice of him who reproaches and reviles, Because of the enemy \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and the avenger. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 All this has come upon us; But we have not forgotten You, Nor have we dealt falsely with Your covenant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Our heart has not turned back, Nor have our steps departed from Your way;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 But You have severely broken us in the place of jackals, And covered us with the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 shadow of death. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 If we had forgotten the name of our God, Or stretched out our hands to a foreign god, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Would not God search this out? For He knows the secrets of the heart.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Yet for Your sake we are killed all day long; We are accounted as sheep for the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 slaughter.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Awake! Why do You sleep, O Lord? Arise! Do not cast us off forever. \cf1\up13\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Why do You hide Your face, And forget our affliction and our oppression? \cf1\up13\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 For our soul is bowed down to the dust; Our body clings to the ground. \cf1\up13\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise for our help, And redeem us for Your mercies' sake. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 45 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 My heart is overflowing with a good theme; I recite my composition concerning the King; My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You are fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Gird Your sword upon Your thigh, O Mighty One, With Your glory and Your majesty. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 And in Your majesty ride prosperously because of truth, humility, and righteousness; And Your right hand shall teach You awesome things. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the King's enemies; The peoples fall under You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of Your kingdom. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You love righteousness and hate wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of gladness more than Your companions. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 All Your garments are scented with myrrh and aloes and cassia, Out of the ivory palaces, by which they have made You glad. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Kings' daughters are among Your honorable women; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Listen, O daughter, Consider and incline your ear; Forget your own people also, and your father's house; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 So the King will greatly desire your beauty; Because He is your Lord, worship Him. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 And the daughter of Tyre will come with a gift; The rich among the people will seek \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 your favor.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 The royal daughter is all glorious within the palace; Her clothing is woven with gold. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 She shall be brought to the King in robes of many colors; The virgins, her companions who follow her, shall be brought to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 With gladness and rejoicing they shall be brought; They shall enter the King's palace. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Instead of Your fathers shall be Your sons, Whom You shall make princes in all the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 I will make Your name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore the people shall praise You forever and ever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 46 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 God is our refuge and strength, A very present help in trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore we will not fear, Even though the earth be removed, And though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Though its waters roar and be troubled, Though the mountains shake with its swelling.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 There is a river whose streams shall make glad the city of God, The holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved; God shall help her, just at the break of dawn. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The nations raged, the kingdoms were moved; He uttered His voice, the earth melted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our refuge.Selah\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Come, behold the works of the LORD, Who has made desolations in the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two; He burns the chariot in the fire. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Be still, and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our refuge.Selah \cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 47 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, clap your hands, all you peoples! Shout to God with the voice of triumph!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD Most High is awesome; He is a great King over all the earth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He will subdue the peoples under us, And the nations under our feet.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He will choose our inheritance for us, The excellence of Jacob whom He loves.Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 God has gone up with a shout, The LORD with the sound of a trumpet. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For God is the King of all the earth; Sing praises with understanding. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 God reigns over the nations; God sits on His holy throne. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The princes of the people have gathered together, The people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God; He is greatly exalted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 48 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised In the city of our God, In His holy mountain. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Beautiful in elevation, The joy of the whole earth, Is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, The city of the great King. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 God is in her palaces; He is known as her refuge. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For behold, the kings assembled, They passed by together. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They saw it, and so they marveled; They were troubled, they hastened away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Fear took hold of them there, And pain, as of a woman in birth pangs, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 As when You break the ships of Tarshish With an east wind. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 As we have heard, So we have seen In the city of the LORD of hosts, In the city of our God: God will establish it forever.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 We have thought, O God, on Your lovingkindness, In the midst of Your temple. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 According to Your name, O God, So is Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 right hand is full of righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Mount Zion rejoice, Let the daughters of Judah be glad, Because of Your judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Walk about Zion, And go all around her. Count her towers; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Mark well her bulwarks; Consider her palaces; That you may tell it to the generation following. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 For this is God, Our God forever and ever; He will be our guide Even to death. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 49 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear this, all peoples; Give ear, all inhabitants of the world, \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Both low and high, Rich and poor together. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 My mouth shall speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart shall give understanding. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will disclose my dark saying on the harp. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Why should I fear in the days of evil, When the iniquity at my heels surrounds me? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who trust in their wealth And boast in the multitude of their riches, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 None of them can by any means redeem his brother, Nor give to God a ransom for him-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 For the redemption of their souls is costly, And it shall cease forever-- \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 That he should continue to live eternally, And not see the Pit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For he sees wise men die; Likewise the fool and the senseless person perish, And leave their wealth to others. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Their inner thought is that their houses will last forever, Their dwelling places to all generations; They call their lands after their own names. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Nevertheless man, though in honor, does not remain; He is like the beasts that perish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 This is the way of those who are foolish, And of their posterity who approve their sayings.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Like sheep they are laid in the grave; Death shall feed on them; The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; And their beauty shall be consumed in the grave, far from their dwelling. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, For He shall receive me.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not be afraid when one becomes rich, When the glory of his house is increased; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 For when he dies he shall carry nothing away; His glory shall not descend after him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Though while he lives he blesses himself (For men will praise you when you do well for yourself), \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall go to the generation of his fathers; They shall never see light.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 A man who is in honor, yet does not understand, Is like the beasts that perish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 50 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The Mighty One, God the LORD, Has spoken and called the earth From the rising of the sun to its going down. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God will shine forth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Our God shall come, and shall not keep silent; A fire shall devour before Him, And it \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 shall be very tempestuous all around Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall call to the heavens from above, And to the earth, that He may judge His people: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 "Gather My saints together to Me, Those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself is Judge.Selah\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 "Hear, O My people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you; I am \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 God, your God! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I will not rebuke you for your sacrifices Or your burnt offerings, Which are continually before Me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will not take a bull from your house, Nor goats out of your folds.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For every beast of the forest is Mine, And the cattle on a thousand hills. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 I know all the birds of the mountains, And the wild beasts of the field are Mine. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 "If I were hungry, I would not tell you; For the world is Mine, and all its fullness. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Will I eat the flesh of bulls, Or drink the blood of goats?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Offer to God thanksgiving, And pay your vows to the Most High. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Call upon Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify Me."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 But to the wicked God says: "What right have you to declare My statutes, Or take \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 My covenant in your mouth,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Seeing you hate instruction And cast My words behind you? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 When you saw a thief, you consented with him, And have been a partaker with adulterers. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 You give your mouth to evil, And your tongue frames deceit.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 You sit and speak against your brother; You slander your own mother's son. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 These things you have done, and I kept silent; You thought that I was altogether like you; But I will rebuke you, And set them in order before your eyes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 "Now consider this, you who forget God, Lest I tear you in pieces, And there be none to deliver: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Whoever offers praise glorifies Me; And to him who orders his conduct aright I will show the salvation of God." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 51 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Have mercy upon me, O God, According to Your lovingkindness; According to the multitude of Your tender mercies, Blot out my transgressions. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, And cleanse me from my sin. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For I acknowledge my transgressions, And my sin is always before me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Against You, You only, have I sinned, And done this evil in Your sight-- That You may be found just when You speak, And blameless when You judge. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, And in sin my mother conceived me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, You desire truth in the inward parts, And in the hidden part You will make \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 me to know wisdom. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Make me hear joy and gladness, That the bones You have broken may rejoice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Hide Your face from my sins, And blot out all my iniquities. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Create in me a clean heart, O God, And renew a steadfast spirit within me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not cast me away from Your presence, And do not take Your Holy Spirit from me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Restore to me the joy of Your salvation, And uphold me by Your generous Spirit. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I will teach transgressors Your ways, And sinners shall be converted to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, The God of my salvation, And my tongue shall sing aloud of Your righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 O Lord, open my lips, And my mouth shall show forth Your praise.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 For You do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it; You do not delight in burnt \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 offering. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, A broken and a contrite heart-- These, O God, You will not despise. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Do good in Your good pleasure to Zion; Build the walls of Jerusalem.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Then You shall be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, With burnt offering \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and whole burnt offering; Then they shall offer bulls on Your altar. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 52 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Why do you boast in evil, O mighty man? The goodness of God endures continually. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Your tongue devises destruction, Like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 You love evil more than good, Lying rather than speaking righteousness.Selah\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 You love all devouring words, You deceitful tongue. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 God shall likewise destroy you forever; He shall take you away, and pluck you out of your dwelling place, And uproot you from the land of the living.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous also shall see and fear, And shall laugh at him, saying,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 "Here is the man who did not make God his strength, But trusted in the abundance \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 of his riches, And strengthened himself in his wickedness." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You forever, Because You have done it; And in the presence of Your saints I will wait on Your name, for it is good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 53 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, and have done abominable iniquity; There is none who does good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 God looks down from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there are any who understand, who seek God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Every one of them has turned aside; They have together become corrupt; There is none who does good, No, not one. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge, Who eat up my people as they eat bread, And do not call upon God? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 There they are in great fear Where no fear was, For God has scattered the bones of him who encamps against you; You have put them to shame, Because God has despised them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When God brings back the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 54 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Save me, O God, by Your name, And vindicate me by Your strength. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Hear my prayer, O God; Give ear to the words of my mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For strangers have risen up against me, And oppressors have sought after my life; They have not set God before them.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, God is my helper; The Lord is with those who uphold my life. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 He will repay my enemies for their evil. Cut them off in Your truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I will freely sacrifice to You; I will praise Your name, O LORD, for it is good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For He has delivered me out of all trouble; And my eye has seen its desire upon my enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 55 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Give ear to my prayer, O God, And do not hide Yourself from my supplication. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Attend to me, and hear me; I am restless in my complaint, and moan noisily, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked; For they bring down trouble upon me, And in wrath they hate me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 My heart is severely pained within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Fearfulness and trembling have come upon me, And horror has overwhelmed me. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 So I said, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Indeed, I would wander far off, And remain in the wilderness.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I would hasten my escape From the windy storm and tempest." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues, For I have seen violence and strife in the city. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Day and night they go around it on its walls; Iniquity and trouble are also in the midst of it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Destruction is in its midst; Oppression and deceit do not depart from its streets. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 For it is not an enemy who reproaches me; Then I could bear it. Nor is it one who \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 hates me who has exalted himself against me; Then I could hide from him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 But it was you, a man my equal, My companion and my acquaintance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 We took sweet counsel together, And walked to the house of God in the throng. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Let death seize them; Let them go down alive into hell, For wickedness is in their dwellings and among them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 As for me, I will call upon God, And the LORD shall save me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Evening and morning and at noon I will pray, and cry aloud, And He shall hear my \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 voice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, For there were many against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 God will hear, and afflict them, Even He who abides from of old.Selah Because they do not change, Therefore they do not fear God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has broken his covenant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, But war was in his heart; His words were softer than oil, Yet they were drawn swords. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Cast your burden on the LORD, And He shall sustain you; He shall never permit the righteous to be moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction; Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; But I will trust in You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 56 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Be merciful to me, O God, for man would swallow me up; Fighting all day he oppresses me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 My enemies would hound me all day, For there are many who fight against me, O Most High. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Whenever I am afraid, I will trust in You.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 In God (I will praise His word), In God I have put my trust; I will not fear. What can \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 flesh do to me?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 All day they twist my words; All their thoughts are against me for evil. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 They gather together, They hide, they mark my steps, When they lie in wait for my life. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Shall they escape by iniquity? In anger cast down the peoples, O God!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 You number my wanderings; Put my tears into Your bottle; Are they not in Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 book? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 When I cry out to You, Then my enemies will turn back; This I know, because God is for me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 In God (I will praise His word), In the LORD (I will praise His word), \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 In God I have put my trust; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Vows made to You are binding upon me, O God; I will render praises to You, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have delivered my soul from death. Have You not kept my feet from falling, That I may walk before God In the light of the living? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 57 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me! For my soul trusts in You; And in the shadow of Your wings I will make my refuge, Until these calamities have passed by. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I will cry out to God Most High, To God who performs all things for me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall send from heaven and save me; He reproaches the one who would swallow me up.Selah God shall send forth His mercy and His truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul is among lions; I lie among the sons of men Who are set on fire, Whose teeth are spears and arrows, And their tongue a sharp sword. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; Let Your glory be above all the earth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 They have prepared a net for my steps; My soul is bowed down; They have dug a pit \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 before me; Into the midst of it they themselves have fallen.Selah\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing and give praise. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Awake, my glory! Awake, lute and harp! I will awaken the dawn.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing to You among the nations. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your mercy reaches unto the heavens, And Your truth unto the clouds.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; Let Your glory be above all the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 58 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Do you indeed speak righteousness, you silent ones? Do you judge uprightly, you sons of men? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 No, in heart you work wickedness; You weigh out the violence of your hands in the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked are estranged from the womb; They go astray as soon as they are born, speaking lies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Their poison is like the poison of a serpent; They are like the deaf cobra that stops its ear, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Which will not heed the voice of charmers, Charming ever so skillfully. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Break their teeth in their mouth, O God! Break out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them flow away as waters which run continually; When he bends his bow, Let his arrows be as if cut in pieces. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be like a snail which melts away as it goes, Like a stillborn child of a woman, that they may not see the sun. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Before your pots can feel the burning thorns, He shall take them away as with a whirlwind, As in His living and burning wrath. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance; He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 So that men will say, "Surely there is a reward for the righteous; Surely He is God who judges in the earth." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 59 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; Defend me from those who rise up against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, And save me from bloodthirsty men.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For look, they lie in wait for my life; The mighty gather against me, Not for my \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 transgression nor for my sin, O LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 They run and prepare themselves through no fault of mine. Awake to help me, and behold! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, Awake to punish all the nations; Do not be merciful to any wicked transgressors.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 At evening they return, They growl like a dog, And go all around the city.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Indeed, they belch with their mouth; Swords are in their lips; For they say, "Who \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 hears?"\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O LORD, shall laugh at them; You shall have all the nations in derision. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will wait for You, O You his Strength; For God is my defense. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 My God of mercy shall come to meet me; God shall let me see my desire on my enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not slay them, lest my people forget; Scatter them by Your power, And bring them down, O Lord our shield. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips, Let them even be taken in their pride, And for the cursing and lying which they speak. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Consume them in wrath, consume them, That they may not be; And let them know that God rules in Jacob To the ends of the earth.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 And at evening they return, They growl like a dog, And go all around the city. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 They wander up and down for food, And howl if they are not satisfied. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 But I will sing of Your power; Yes, I will sing aloud of Your mercy in the morning; For You have been my defense And refuge in the day of my trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 To You, O my Strength, I will sing praises; For God is my defense, My God of mercy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 60 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O God, You have cast us off; You have broken us down; You have been displeased; Oh, restore us again! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You have made the earth tremble; You have broken it; Heal its breaches, for it is shaking. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 You have shown Your people hard things; You have made us drink the wine of confusion. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 You have given a banner to those who fear You, That it may be displayed because of the truth.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 That Your beloved may be delivered, Save with Your right hand, and hear me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 God has spoken in His holiness: "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet for My head; Judah is My lawgiver. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Moab is My washpot; Over Edom I will cast My shoe; Philistia, shout in triumph because of Me." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Who will bring me to the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Is it not You, O God, who cast us off? And You, O God, who did not go out with our \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 armies?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Give us help from trouble, For the help of man is useless.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Through God we will do valiantly, For it is He who shall tread down our enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 61 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear my cry, O God; Attend to my prayer.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 From the end of the earth I will cry to You, When my heart is overwhelmed; Lead me \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 to the rock that is higher than I. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have been a shelter for me, A strong tower from the enemy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I will abide in Your tabernacle forever; I will trust in the shelter of Your wings.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For You, O God, have heard my vows; You have given me the heritage of those who fear Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You will prolong the king's life, His years as many generations.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall abide before God forever. Oh, prepare mercy and truth, which may \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 preserve him!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 So I will sing praise to Your name forever, That I may daily perform my vows. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 62 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Truly my soul silently waits for God; From Him comes my salvation.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 He only is my rock and my salvation; He is my defense; I shall not be greatly moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 How long will you attack a man? You shall be slain, all of you, Like a leaning wall and a tottering fence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 They only consult to cast him down from his high position; They delight in lies; They bless with their mouth, But they curse inwardly.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul, wait silently for God alone, For my expectation is from Him.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He only is my rock and my salvation; He is my defense; I shall not be moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 In God is my salvation and my glory; The rock of my strength, And my refuge, is in God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Trust in Him at all times, you people; Pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge for us.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely men of low degree are a vapor, Men of high degree are a lie; If they are weighed on the scales, They are altogether lighter than vapor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not trust in oppression, Nor vainly hope in robbery; If riches increase, Do not set your heart on them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 God has spoken once, Twice I have heard this: That power belongs to God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Also to You, O Lord, belongs mercy; For You render to each one according to his \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 work. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 63 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O God, You are my God; Early will I seek You; My soul thirsts for You; My flesh longs for You In a dry and thirsty land Where there is no water. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 So I have looked for You in the sanctuary, To see Your power and Your glory. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Because Your lovingkindness is better than life, My lips shall praise You. \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus I will bless You while I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness, And my mouth shall praise You with joyful lips. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 When I remember You on my bed, I meditate on You in the night watches.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Because You have been my help, Therefore in the shadow of Your wings I will \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 rejoice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul follows close behind You; Your right hand upholds me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 But those who seek my life, to destroy it, Shall go into the lower parts of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 They shall fall by the sword; They shall be a portion for jackals. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 But the king shall rejoice in God; Everyone who swears by Him shall glory; But the mouth of those who speak lies shall be stopped. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 64 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear my voice, O God, in my meditation; Preserve my life from fear of the enemy. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, From the rebellion of the workers of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 iniquity, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Who sharpen their tongue like a sword, And bend their bows to shoot their arrows-- bitter words, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 That they may shoot in secret at the blameless; Suddenly they shoot at him and do not fear. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They encourage themselves in an evil matter; They talk of laying snares secretly; They say, "Who will see them?" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 They devise iniquities: "We have perfected a shrewd scheme." Both the inward thought and the heart of man are deep. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; Suddenly they shall be wounded.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 So He will make them stumble over their own tongue; All who see them shall flee \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 All men shall fear, And shall declare the work of God; For they shall wisely consider His doing. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and trust in Him. And all the upright in heart shall glory. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 65 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise is awaiting You, O God, in Zion; And to You the vow shall be performed. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 O You who hear prayer, To You all flesh will come. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Iniquities prevail against me; As for our transgressions, You will provide atonement for them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is the man You choose, And cause to approach You, That he may dwell in Your courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of Your house, Of Your holy temple. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 By awesome deeds in righteousness You will answer us, O God of our salvation, You who are the confidence of all the ends of the earth, And of the far-off seas; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Who established the mountains by His strength, Being clothed with power;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You who still the noise of the seas, The noise of their waves, And the tumult of the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 peoples. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They also who dwell in the farthest parts are afraid of Your signs; You make the outgoings of the morning and evening rejoice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You visit the earth and water it, You greatly enrich it; The river of God is full of water; You provide their grain, For so You have prepared it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 You water its ridges abundantly, You settle its furrows; You make it soft with showers, You bless its growth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 You crown the year with Your goodness, And Your paths drip with abundance. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 They drop on the pastures of the wilderness, And the little hills rejoice on every side. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 The pastures are clothed with flocks; The valleys also are covered with grain; They shout for joy, they also sing. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 66 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing out the honor of His name; Make His praise glorious. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Say to God, "How awesome are Your works! Through the greatness of Your power Your enemies shall submit themselves to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 All the earth shall worship You And sing praises to You; They shall sing praises to Your name."Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Come and see the works of God; He is awesome in His doing toward the sons of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He turned the sea into dry land; They went through the river on foot. There we will rejoice in Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He rules by His power forever; His eyes observe the nations; Do not let the rebellious exalt themselves.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, bless our God, you peoples! And make the voice of His praise to be heard, \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Who keeps our soul among the living, And does not allow our feet to be moved. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For You, O God, have tested us; You have refined us as silver is refined. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 You brought us into the net; You laid affliction on our backs. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 You have caused men to ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water; But You brought us out to rich fulfillment. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 I will go into Your house with burnt offerings; I will pay You my vows,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Which my lips have uttered And my mouth has spoken when I was in trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 I will offer You burnt sacrifices of fat animals, With the sweet aroma of rams; I will offer bulls with goats.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Come and hear, all you who fear God, And I will declare what He has done for my soul. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 I cried to Him with my mouth, And He was extolled with my tongue. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 If I regard iniquity in my heart, The Lord will not hear.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 But certainly God has heard me; He has attended to the voice of my prayer. \cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be God, Who has not turned away my prayer, Nor His mercy from me! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 67 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 God be merciful to us and bless us, And cause His face to shine upon us,Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 That Your way may be known on earth, Your salvation among all nations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let all the peoples praise You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy! For You shall judge the people righteously, And govern the nations on earth.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let all the peoples praise You.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Then the earth shall yield her increase; God, our own God, shall bless us. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 God shall bless us, And all the ends of the earth shall fear Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 68 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Let God arise, Let His enemies be scattered; Let those also who hate Him flee before Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 As smoke is driven away, So drive them away; As wax melts before the fire, So let the wicked perish at the presence of God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 But let the righteous be glad; Let them rejoice before God; Yes, let them rejoice exceedingly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to God, sing praises to His name; Extol Him who rides on the clouds, By His name YAH, And rejoice before Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 A father of the fatherless, a defender of widows, Is God in His holy habitation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 God sets the solitary in families; He brings out those who are bound into prosperity; But the rebellious dwell in a dry land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, when You went out before Your people, When You marched through the wilderness,Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The earth shook; The heavens also dropped rain at the presence of God; Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You, O God, sent a plentiful rain, Whereby You confirmed Your inheritance, When it was weary. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Your congregation dwelt in it; You, O God, provided from Your goodness for the poor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The Lord gave the word; Great was the company of those who proclaimed it: \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 "Kings of armies flee, they flee, And she who remains at home divides the spoil. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Though you lie down among the sheepfolds, You will be like the wings of a dove covered with silver, And her feathers with yellow gold." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 When the Almighty scattered kings in it, It was white as snow in Zalmon.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A mountain of many peaks is the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 mountain of Bashan. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Why do you fume with envy, you mountains of many peaks? This is the mountain which God desires to dwell in; Yes, the LORD will dwell in it forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, Even thousands of thousands; The Lord is among them as in Sinai, in the Holy Place. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 You have ascended on high, You have led captivity captive; You have received gifts among men, Even from the rebellious, That the LORD God might dwell there. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the Lord, Who daily loads us with benefits, The God of our salvation!Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Our God is the God of salvation; And to GOD the Lord belong escapes from death. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 But God will wound the head of His enemies, The hairy scalp of the one who still goes on in his trespasses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 The Lord said, "I will bring back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 That your foot may crush them in blood, And the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 They have seen Your procession, O God, The procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; Among them were the maidens playing timbrels. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless God in the congregations, The Lord, from the fountain of Israel.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 There is little Benjamin, their leader, The princes of Judah and their company, The \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 Your God has commanded your strength; Strengthen, O God, what You have done for us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 Because of Your temple at Jerusalem, Kings will bring presents to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 Rebuke the beasts of the reeds, The herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, Till everyone submits himself with pieces of silver. Scatter the peoples who delight in war. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 Envoys will come out of Egypt; Ethiopia will quickly stretch out her hands to God. \cf1\up13\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; Oh, sing praises to the Lord,Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which were of old! Indeed, He sends out His voice, a mighty voice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 Ascribe strength to God; His excellence is over Israel, And His strength is in the clouds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, You are more awesome than Your holy places. The God of Israel is He who gives strength and power to His people. Blessed be God! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 69 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Save me, O God! For the waters have come up to my neck.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I sink in deep mire, Where there is no standing; I have come into deep waters, \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Where the floods overflow me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 I am weary with my crying; My throat is dry; My eyes fail while I wait for my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who hate me without a cause Are more than the hairs of my head; They are mighty who would destroy me, Being my enemies wrongfully; Though I have stolen nothing, I still must restore it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, You know my foolishness; And my sins are not hidden from You.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Let not those who wait for You, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed because of me; \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Let not those who seek You be confounded because of me, O God of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Because for Your sake I have borne reproach; Shame has covered my face. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I have become a stranger to my brothers, And an alien to my mother's children; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Because zeal for Your house has eaten me up, And the reproaches of those who reproach You have fallen on me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 When I wept and chastened my soul with fasting, That became my reproach. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 I also made sackcloth my garment; I became a byword to them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who sit in the gate speak against me, And I am the song of the drunkards. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 But as for me, my prayer is to You, O LORD, in the acceptable time; O God, in the multitude of Your mercy, Hear me in the truth of Your salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me out of the mire, And let me not sink; Let me be delivered from those who hate me, And out of the deep waters. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Let not the floodwater overflow me, Nor let the deep swallow me up; And let not the pit shut its mouth on me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Hear me, O LORD, for Your lovingkindness is good; Turn to me according to the multitude of Your tender mercies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 And do not hide Your face from Your servant, For I am in trouble; Hear me speedily. \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Draw near to my soul, and redeem it; Deliver me because of my enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor; My adversaries are all before You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Reproach has broken my heart, And I am full of heaviness; I looked for someone to take pity, but there was none; And for comforters, but I found none. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 They also gave me gall for my food, And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. \cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Let their table become a snare before them, And their well-being a trap. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Let their eyes be darkened, so that they do not see; And make their loins shake continually. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Pour out Your indignation upon them, And let Your wrathful anger take hold of them. \cf1\up13\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Let their dwelling place be desolate; Let no one live in their tents. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 For they persecute the ones You have struck, And talk of the grief of those You have wounded. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 Add iniquity to their iniquity, And let them not come into Your righteousness.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, And not be written with the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 But I am poor and sorrowful; Let Your salvation, O God, set me up on high. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise the name of God with a song, And will magnify Him with thanksgiving. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bull, Which has horns and hooves. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 The humble shall see this and be glad; And you who seek God, your hearts shall live. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD hears the poor, And does not despise His prisoners. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 Let heaven and earth praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them. \cf1\up13\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 For God will save Zion And build the cities of Judah, That they may dwell there and \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 possess it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 Also, the descendants of His servants shall inherit it, And those who love His name shall dwell in it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 70 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Make haste, O God, to deliver me! Make haste to help me, O LORD!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be ashamed and confounded Who seek my life; Let them be turned back \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and confused Who desire my hurt.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be turned back because of their shame, Who say, "Aha, aha!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Let all those who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; And let those who love Your salvation say continually, "Let God be magnified!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 But I am poor and needy; Make haste to me, O God! You are my help and my deliverer; O LORD, do not delay. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 71 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 In You, O LORD, I put my trust; Let me never be put to shame.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me in Your righteousness, and cause me to escape; Incline Your ear to me, \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 and save me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Be my strong refuge, To which I may resort continually; You have given the commandment to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For You are my hope, O Lord GOD; You are my trust from my youth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 By You I have been upheld from birth; You are He who took me out of my mother's womb. My praise shall be continually of You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 I have become as a wonder to many, But You are my strong refuge. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my mouth be filled with Your praise And with Your glory all the day. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not cast me off in the time of old age; Do not forsake me when my strength fails. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For my enemies speak against me; And those who lie in wait for my life take counsel together, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Saying, "God has forsaken him; Pursue and take him, for there is none to deliver him." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, do not be far from me; O my God, make haste to help me!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be confounded and consumed Who are adversaries of my life; Let them \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 be covered with reproach and dishonor Who seek my hurt.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 But I will hope continually, And will praise You yet more and more. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness And Your salvation all the day, For I do not know their limits. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD; I will make mention of Your righteousness, of Yours only. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, You have taught me from my youth; And to this day I declare Your wondrous works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Now also when I am old and grayheaded, O God, do not forsake me, Until I declare Your strength to this generation, Your power to everyone who is to come. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Also Your righteousness, O God, is very high, You who have done great things; O God, who is like You? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 You, who have shown me great and severe troubles, Shall revive me again, And bring me up again from the depths of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall increase my greatness, And comfort me on every side. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Also with the lute I will praise You-- And Your faithfulness, O my God! To You I will sing with the harp, O Holy One of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing to You, And my soul, which You have redeemed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 My tongue also shall talk of Your righteousness all the day long; For they are confounded, For they are brought to shame Who seek my hurt. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 72 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Give the king Your judgments, O God, And Your righteousness to the king's Son. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 He will judge Your people with righteousness, And Your poor with justice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The mountains will bring peace to the people, And the little hills, by righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He will bring justice to the poor of the people; He will save the children of the needy, And will break in pieces the oppressor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They shall fear You As long as the sun and moon endure, Throughout all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall come down like rain upon the grass before mowing, Like showers that water the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 In His days the righteous shall flourish, And abundance of peace, Until the moon is no more. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, And from the River to the ends of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who dwell in the wilderness will bow before Him, And His enemies will lick the dust. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles Will bring presents; The kings of Sheba and Seba Will offer gifts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Yes, all kings shall fall down before Him; All nations shall serve Him.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 For He will deliver the needy when he cries, The poor also, and him who has no \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 helper.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 He will spare the poor and needy, And will save the souls of the needy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 He will redeem their life from oppression and violence; And precious shall be their blood in His sight. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 And He shall live; And the gold of Sheba will be given to Him; Prayer also will be made for Him continually, And daily He shall be praised. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 There will be an abundance of grain in the earth, On the top of the mountains; Its fruit shall wave like Lebanon; And those of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 His name shall endure forever; His name shall continue as long as the sun. And men shall be blessed in Him; All nations shall call Him blessed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, Who only does wondrous things! \cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 And blessed be His glorious name forever! And let the whole earth be filled with His \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 glory. Amen and Amen.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 73 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Truly God is good to Israel, To such as are pure in heart.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled; My steps had nearly slipped.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For I was envious of the boastful, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For there are no pangs in their death, But their strength is firm.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They are not in trouble as other men, Nor are they plagued like other men. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore pride serves as their necklace; Violence covers them like a garment. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Their eyes bulge with abundance; They have more than heart could wish.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They scoff and speak wickedly concerning oppression; They speak loftily.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 They set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue walks through the earth. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore his people return here, And waters of a full cup are drained by them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 And they say, "How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?" \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, these are the ungodly, Who are always at ease; They increase in riches. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain, And washed my hands in innocence. \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 For all day long I have been plagued, And chastened every morning. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 If I had said, "I will speak thus," Behold, I would have been untrue to the generation of Your children. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 When I thought how to understand this, It was too painful for me-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Until I went into the sanctuary of God; Then I understood their end. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely You set them in slippery places; You cast them down to destruction. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, how they are brought to desolation, as in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 As a dream when one awakes, So, Lord, when You awake, You shall despise their image. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus my heart was grieved, And I was vexed in my mind. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 I was so foolish and ignorant; I was like a beast before You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Nevertheless I am continually with You; You hold me by my right hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 You will guide me with Your counsel, And afterward receive me to glory. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Whom have I in heaven but You? And there is none upon earth that I desire besides You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 My flesh and my heart fail; But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 For indeed, those who are far from You shall perish; You have destroyed all those who desert You for harlotry. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 But it is good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, That I may declare all Your works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 74 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O God, why have You cast us off forever? Why does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember Your congregation, which You have purchased of old, The tribe of Your inheritance, which You have redeemed-- This Mount Zion where You have dwelt. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Lift up Your feet to the perpetual desolations. The enemy has damaged everything in the sanctuary. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Your enemies roar in the midst of Your meeting place; They set up their banners for signs. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They seem like men who lift up Axes among the thick trees.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 And now they break down its carved work, all at once, With axes and hammers. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 They have set fire to Your sanctuary; They have defiled the dwelling place of Your name to the ground. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They said in their hearts, "Let us destroy them altogether." They have burned up all the meeting places of God in the land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 We do not see our signs; There is no longer any prophet; Nor is there any among us who knows how long. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, how long will the adversary reproach? Will the enemy blaspheme Your name forever? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? Take it out of Your bosom and destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 For God is my King from of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 You divided the sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the sea serpents in the waters. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces, And gave him as food to the people inhabiting the wilderness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 You broke open the fountain and the flood; You dried up mighty rivers. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The day is Yours, the night also is Yours; You have prepared the light and the sun. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 You have set all the borders of the earth; You have made summer and winter. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember this, that the enemy has reproached, O LORD, And that a foolish people has blasphemed Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, do not deliver the life of Your turtledove to the wild beast! Do not forget the life of Your poor forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Have respect to the covenant; For the dark places of the earth are full of the haunts of cruelty. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, do not let the oppressed return ashamed! Let the poor and needy praise Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O God, plead Your own cause; Remember how the foolish man reproaches You daily. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not forget the voice of Your enemies; The tumult of those who rise up against You increases continually. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 75 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 We give thanks to You, O God, we give thanks! For Your wondrous works declare that Your name is near. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 "When I choose the proper time, I will judge uprightly.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The earth and all its inhabitants are dissolved; I set up its pillars firmly.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 "I said to the boastful, "Do not deal boastfully,' And to the wicked, "Do not lift up the horn. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not lift up your horn on high; Do not speak with a stiff neck."' \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 For exaltation comes neither from the east Nor from the west nor from the south. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 But God is the Judge: He puts down one, And exalts another. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, And the wine is red; It is fully mixed, and He pours it out; Surely its dregs shall all the wicked of the earth Drain and drink down. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 But I will declare forever, I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 "All the horns of the wicked I will also cut off, But the horns of the righteous shall be \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 exalted." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 76 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 In Judah God is known; His name is great in Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 In Salem also is His tabernacle, And His dwelling place in Zion. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 There He broke the arrows of the bow, The shield and sword of battle.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 You are more glorious and excellent Than the mountains of prey. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The stouthearted were plundered; They have sunk into their sleep; And none of the mighty men have found the use of their hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, Both the chariot and horse were cast into a dead sleep. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You, Yourself, are to be feared; And who may stand in Your presence When once You are angry? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 You caused judgment to be heard from heaven; The earth feared and was still, \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 When God arose to judgment, To deliver all the oppressed of the earth.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely the wrath of man shall praise You; With the remainder of wrath You shall gird Yourself. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Make vows to the LORD your God, and pay them; Let all who are around Him bring presents to Him who ought to be feared. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall cut off the spirit of princes; He is awesome to the kings of the earth. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 77 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I cried out to God with my voice-- To God with my voice; And He gave ear to me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; My hand was stretched out in the night \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 without ceasing; My soul refused to be comforted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 I remembered God, and was troubled; I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 You hold my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I have considered the days of old, The years of ancient times. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I call to remembrance my song in the night; I meditate within my heart, And my spirit makes diligent search. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Will the Lord cast off forever? And will He be favorable no more? \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Has His mercy ceased forever? Has His promise failed forevermore? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has He in anger shut up His tender mercies?Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 And I said, "This is my anguish; But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 I will remember the works of the LORD; Surely I will remember Your wonders of old. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 I will also meditate on all Your work, And talk of Your deeds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Your way, O God, is in the sanctuary; Who is so great a God as our God? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 You are the God who does wonders; You have declared Your strength among the peoples. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 You have with Your arm redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The waters saw You, O God; The waters saw You, they were afraid; The depths also trembled. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The clouds poured out water; The skies sent out a sound; Your arrows also flashed about. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of Your thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightnings lit up the world; The earth trembled and shook. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Your way was in the sea, Your path in the great waters, And Your footsteps were not known. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron. \cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 78 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Give ear, O my people, to my law; Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings of old, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Which we have heard and known, And our fathers have told us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 We will not hide them from their children, Telling to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, And His strength and His wonderful works that He has done. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For He established a testimony in Jacob, And appointed a law in Israel, Which He commanded our fathers, That they should make them known to their children; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 That the generation to come might know them, The children who would be born, That they may arise and declare them to their children, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 That they may set their hope in God, And not forget the works of God, But keep His commandments; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 And may not be like their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation, A generation that did not set its heart aright, And whose spirit was not faithful to God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, Turned back in the day of battle. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 They did not keep the covenant of God; They refused to walk in His law, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 And forgot His works And His wonders that He had shown them.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Marvelous things He did in the sight of their fathers, In the land of Egypt, in the field \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 of Zoan. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 He divided the sea and caused them to pass through; And He made the waters stand up like a heap. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 In the daytime also He led them with the cloud, And all the night with a light of fire. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 He split the rocks in the wilderness, And gave them drink in abundance like the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 depths.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 He also brought streams out of the rock, And caused waters to run down like rivers. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 But they sinned even more against Him By rebelling against the Most High in the wilderness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 And they tested God in their heart By asking for the food of their fancy.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Yes, they spoke against God: They said, "Can God prepare a table in the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 wilderness? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, He struck the rock, So that the waters gushed out, And the streams overflowed. Can He give bread also? Can He provide meat for His people? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore the LORD heard this and was furious; So a fire was kindled against Jacob, And anger also came up against Israel, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Because they did not believe in God, And did not trust in His salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Yet He had commanded the clouds above, And opened the doors of heaven, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Had rained down manna on them to eat, And given them of the bread of heaven. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Men ate angels' food; He sent them food to the full. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 He caused an east wind to blow in the heavens; And by His power He brought in the south wind. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 He also rained meat on them like the dust, Feathered fowl like the sand of the seas; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 And He let them fall in the midst of their camp, All around their dwellings. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 So they ate and were well filled, For He gave them their own desire. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 They were not deprived of their craving; But while their food was still in their mouths, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 The wrath of God came against them, And slew the stoutest of them, And struck down the choice men of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 In spite of this they still sinned, And did not believe in His wondrous works. \cf1\up13\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore their days He consumed in futility, And their years in fear. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 When He slew them, then they sought Him; And they returned and sought earnestly for God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they remembered that God was their rock, And the Most High God their Redeemer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 Nevertheless they flattered Him with their mouth, And they lied to Him with their tongue; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 For their heart was not steadfast with Him, Nor were they faithful in His covenant. \cf1\up13\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 But He, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, And did not destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Yes, many a time He turned His anger away, And did not stir up all His wrath; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 For He remembered that they were but flesh, A breath that passes away and does not come again. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 How often they provoked Him in the wilderness, And grieved Him in the desert! \cf1\up13\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 Yes, again and again they tempted God, And limited the Holy One of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 They did not remember His power: The day when He redeemed them from the enemy, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 When He worked His signs in Egypt, And His wonders in the field of Zoan; \cf1\up13\fs16 44\cf0\up0\fs26 Turned their rivers into blood, And their streams, that they could not drink. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 45\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent swarms of flies among them, which devoured them, And frogs, which destroyed them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 46\cf0\up0\fs26 He also gave their crops to the caterpillar, And their labor to the locust. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 47\cf0\up0\fs26 He destroyed their vines with hail, And their sycamore trees with frost. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 48\cf0\up0\fs26 He also gave up their cattle to the hail, And their flocks to fiery lightning. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 49\cf0\up0\fs26 He cast on them the fierceness of His anger, Wrath, indignation, and trouble, By sending angels of destruction among them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 50\cf0\up0\fs26 He made a path for His anger; He did not spare their soul from death, But gave their life over to the plague, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 51\cf0\up0\fs26 And destroyed all the firstborn in Egypt, The first of their strength in the tents of Ham. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 52\cf0\up0\fs26 But He made His own people go forth like sheep, And guided them in the wilderness like a flock; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 53\cf0\up0\fs26 And He led them on safely, so that they did not fear; But the sea overwhelmed their enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 54\cf0\up0\fs26 And He brought them to His holy border, This mountain which His right hand had acquired. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 55\cf0\up0\fs26 He also drove out the nations before them, Allotted them an inheritance by survey, And made the tribes of Israel dwell in their tents. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 56\cf0\up0\fs26 Yet they tested and provoked the Most High God, And did not keep His testimonies, \cf1\up13\fs16 57\cf0\up0\fs26 But turned back and acted unfaithfully like their fathers; They were turned aside like \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 a deceitful bow. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 58\cf0\up0\fs26 For they provoked Him to anger with their high places, And moved Him to jealousy with their carved images. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 59\cf0\up0\fs26 When God heard this, He was furious, And greatly abhorred Israel,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 60\cf0\up0\fs26 So that He forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, The tent He had placed among men, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 61\cf0\up0\fs26 And delivered His strength into captivity, And His glory into the enemy's hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 62\cf0\up0\fs26 He also gave His people over to the sword, And was furious with His inheritance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 63\cf0\up0\fs26 The fire consumed their young men, And their maidens were not given in marriage. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 64\cf0\up0\fs26 Their priests fell by the sword, And their widows made no lamentation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 65\cf0\up0\fs26 Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, Like a mighty man who shouts because of wine. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 66\cf0\up0\fs26 And He beat back His enemies; He put them to a perpetual reproach. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 67\cf0\up0\fs26 Moreover He rejected the tent of Joseph, And did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 68\cf0\up0\fs26 But chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion which He loved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 69\cf0\up0\fs26 And He built His sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth which He has established forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 70\cf0\up0\fs26 He also chose David His servant, And took him from the sheepfolds;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 71\cf0\up0\fs26 From following the ewes that had young He brought him, To shepherd Jacob His \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 people, And Israel His inheritance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 72\cf0\up0\fs26 So he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart, And guided them by the skillfulness of his hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 79 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O God, the nations have come into Your inheritance; Your holy temple they have defiled; They have laid Jerusalem in heaps. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The dead bodies of Your servants They have given as food for the birds of the heavens, The flesh of Your saints to the beasts of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Their blood they have shed like water all around Jerusalem, And there was no one to bury them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 We have become a reproach to our neighbors, A scorn and derision to those who are around us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 How long, LORD? Will You be angry forever? Will Your jealousy burn like fire?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Pour out Your wrath on the nations that do not know You, And on the kingdoms that \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 do not call on Your name.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For they have devoured Jacob, And laid waste his dwelling place. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, do not remember former iniquities against us! Let Your tender mercies come speedily to meet us, For we have been brought very low. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Help us, O God of our salvation, For the glory of Your name; And deliver us, and provide atonement for our sins, For Your name's sake! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let there be known among the nations in our sight The avenging of the blood of Your servants which has been shed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the groaning of the prisoner come before You; According to the greatness of Your power Preserve those who are appointed to die; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 And return to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom Their reproach with which they have reproached You, O Lord. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 So we, Your people and sheep of Your pasture, Will give You thanks forever; We will show forth Your praise to all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 80 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, You who lead Joseph like a flock; You who dwell between the cherubim, shine forth! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh, Stir up Your strength, And come and save us! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Restore us, O God; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD God of hosts, How long will You be angry Against the prayer of Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 people? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You have fed them with the bread of tears, And given them tears to drink in great measure. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You have made us a strife to our neighbors, And our enemies laugh among themselves. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Restore us, O God of hosts; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 You have brought a vine out of Egypt; You have cast out the nations, and planted it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You prepared room for it, And caused it to take deep root, And it filled the land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The hills were covered with its shadow, And the mighty cedars with its boughs. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 She sent out her boughs to the Sea, And her branches to the River. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Why have You broken down her hedges, So that all who pass by the way pluck her fruit? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 The boar out of the woods uproots it, And the wild beast of the field devours it. \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Return, we beseech You, O God of hosts; Look down from heaven and see, And \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 visit this vine \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 And the vineyard which Your right hand has planted, And the branch that You made strong for Yourself. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 It is burned with fire, it is cut down; They perish at the rebuke of Your countenance. \cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, Upon the son of man whom \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 You made strong for Yourself.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Then we will not turn back from You; Revive us, and we will call upon Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Restore us, O LORD God of hosts; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 81 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Sing aloud to God our strength; Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Raise a song and strike the timbrel, The pleasant harp with the lute. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Blow the trumpet at the time of the New Moon, At the full moon, on our solemn feast day. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For this is a statute for Israel, A law of the God of Jacob.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 This He established in Joseph as a testimony, When He went throughout the land of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Egypt, Where I heard a language I did not understand.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 "I removed his shoulder from the burden; His hands were freed from the baskets. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 You called in trouble, and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder; I tested you at the waters of Meribah.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 "Hear, O My people, and I will admonish you! O Israel, if you will listen to Me! \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 There shall be no foreign god among you; Nor shall you worship any foreign god. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 I am the LORD your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt; Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 "But My people would not heed My voice, And Israel would have none of Me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 So I gave them over to their own stubborn heart, To walk in their own counsels. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 "Oh, that My people would listen to Me, That Israel would walk in My ways! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 I would soon subdue their enemies, And turn My hand against their adversaries. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 The haters of the LORD would pretend submission to Him, But their fate would endure forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 He would have fed them also with the finest of wheat; And with honey from the rock I would have satisfied you." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 82 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 God stands in the congregation of the mighty; He judges among the gods. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 How long will you judge unjustly, And show partiality to the wicked?Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Defend the poor and fatherless; Do justice to the afflicted and needy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver the poor and needy; Free them from the hand of the wicked.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They do not know, nor do they understand; They walk about in darkness; All the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 foundations of the earth are unstable.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I said, "You are gods, And all of you are children of the Most High. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 But you shall die like men, And fall like one of the princes."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O God, judge the earth; For You shall inherit all nations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 83 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Do not keep silent, O God! Do not hold Your peace, And do not be still, O God!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For behold, Your enemies make a tumult; And those who hate You have lifted up \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 their head. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 They have taken crafty counsel against Your people, And consulted together against Your sheltered ones. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 They have said, "Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation, That the name of Israel may be remembered no more." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For they have consulted together with one consent; They form a confederacy against You: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab and the Hagrites; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Assyria also has joined with them; They have helped the children of Lot.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Deal with them as with Midian, As with Sisera, As with Jabin at the Brook Kishon, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Who perished at En Dor, Who became as refuse on the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Make their nobles like Oreb and like Zeeb, Yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Who said, "Let us take for ourselves The pastures of God for a possession." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 O my God, make them like the whirling dust, Like the chaff before the wind! \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 As the fire burns the woods, And as the flame sets the mountains on fire, \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 So pursue them with Your tempest, And frighten them with Your storm. \cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Fill their faces with shame, That they may seek Your name, O LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be confounded and dismayed forever; Yes, let them be put to shame and perish, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 That they may know that You, whose name alone is the LORD, Are the Most High over all the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 84 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 How lovely is Your tabernacle, O LORD of hosts!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul longs, yes, even faints For the courts of the LORD; My heart and my flesh \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 cry out for the living God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Even the sparrow has found a home, And the swallow a nest for herself, Where she may lay her young-- Even Your altars, O LORD of hosts, My King and my God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed are those who dwell in Your house; They will still be praising You.Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is the man whose strength is in You, Whose heart is set on pilgrimage. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 As they pass through the Valley of Baca, They make it a spring; The rain also covers it with pools. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 They go from strength to strength; Each one appears before God in Zion. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob!Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, behold our shield, And look upon the face of Your anointed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For a day in Your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God Than dwell in the tents of wickedness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD God is a sun and shield; The LORD will give grace and glory; No good thing will He withhold From those who walk uprightly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD of hosts, Blessed is the man who trusts in You! \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 85 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 LORD, You have been favorable to Your land; You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You have forgiven the iniquity of Your people; You have covered all their sin.Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 You have taken away all Your wrath; You have turned from the fierceness of Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 anger. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Restore us, O God of our salvation, And cause Your anger toward us to cease. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger to all generations? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Will You not revive us again, That Your people may rejoice in You? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Show us Your mercy, LORD, And grant us Your salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I will hear what God the LORD will speak, For He will speak peace To His people and to His saints; But let them not turn back to folly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely His salvation is near to those who fear Him, That glory may dwell in our land. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Mercy and truth have met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Truth shall spring out of the earth, And righteousness shall look down from heaven. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Yes, the LORD will give what is good; And our land will yield its increase. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Righteousness will go before Him, And shall make His footsteps our pathway. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 86 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Bow down Your ear, O LORD, hear me; For I am poor and needy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Preserve my life, for I am holy; You are my God; Save Your servant who trusts in You! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Be merciful to me, O Lord, For I cry to You all day long.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Rejoice the soul of Your servant, For to You, O Lord, I lift up my soul. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For You, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive, And abundant in mercy to all those who call upon You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; And attend to the voice of my supplications. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 In the day of my trouble I will call upon You, For You will answer me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Among the gods there is none like You, O Lord; Nor are there any works like Your works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 All nations whom You have made Shall come and worship before You, O Lord, And shall glorify Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For You are great, and do wondrous things; You alone are God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Teach me Your way, O LORD; I will walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You, O Lord my God, with all my heart, And I will glorify Your name forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For great is Your mercy toward me, And You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 O God, the proud have risen against me, And a mob of violent men have sought my life, And have not set You before them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O Lord, are a God full of compassion, and gracious, Longsuffering and abundant in mercy and truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, turn to me, and have mercy on me! Give Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your maidservant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Show me a sign for good, That those who hate me may see it and be ashamed, Because You, LORD, have helped me and comforted me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 87 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 His foundation is in the holy mountains. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD loves the gates of Zion More than all the dwellings of Jacob. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God!Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 "I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to those who know Me; Behold, O Philistia and Tyre, with Ethiopia: "This one was born there.' \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 And of Zion it will be said, "This one and that one were born in her; And the Most High Himself shall establish her." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will record, When He registers the peoples: "This one was born there."Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Both the singers and the players on instruments say, "All my springs are in you." \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 88 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD, God of my salvation, I have cried out day and night before You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my prayer come before You; Incline Your ear to my cry. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For my soul is full of troubles, And my life draws near to the grave. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I am counted with those who go down to the pit; I am like a man who has no strength, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Adrift among the dead, Like the slain who lie in the grave, Whom You remember no more, And who are cut off from Your hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You have laid me in the lowest pit, In darkness, in the depths.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Your wrath lies heavy upon me, And You have afflicted me with all Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 waves.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 You have put away my acquaintances far from me; You have made me an abomination to them; I am shut up, and I cannot get out; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 My eye wastes away because of affliction. LORD, I have called daily upon You; I have stretched out my hands to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Will You work wonders for the dead? Shall the dead arise and praise You?Selah \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Shall Your lovingkindness be declared in the grave? Or Your faithfulness in the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 place of destruction? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Shall Your wonders be known in the dark? And Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 But to You I have cried out, O LORD, And in the morning my prayer comes before You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, why do You cast off my soul? Why do You hide Your face from me?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 I have been afflicted and ready to die from my youth; I suffer Your terrors; I am \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 distraught. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Your fierce wrath has gone over me; Your terrors have cut me off. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 They came around me all day long like water; They engulfed me altogether. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Loved one and friend You have put far from me, And my acquaintances into darkness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 89 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will sing of the mercies of the LORD forever; With my mouth will I make known Your faithfulness to all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For I have said, "Mercy shall be built up forever; Your faithfulness You shall establish in the very heavens." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 "I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn to My servant David:\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 "Your seed I will establish forever, And build up your throne to all \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 generations."'Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 And the heavens will praise Your wonders, O LORD; Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the saints. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 For who in the heavens can be compared to the LORD? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the LORD? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, And to be held in reverence by all those around Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD God of hosts, Who is mighty like You, O LORD? Your faithfulness also surrounds You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You rule the raging of the sea; When its waves rise, You still them.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 You have broken Rahab in pieces, as one who is slain; You have scattered Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 enemies with Your mighty arm. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; The world and all its fullness, You have founded them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 The north and the south, You have created them; Tabor and Hermon rejoice in Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 You have a mighty arm; Strong is Your hand, and high is Your right hand. \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; Mercy and truth go \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 before Your face. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed are the people who know the joyful sound! They walk, O LORD, in the light of Your countenance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 In Your name they rejoice all day long, And in Your righteousness they are exalted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 For You are the glory of their strength, And in Your favor our horn is exalted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 For our shield belongs to the LORD, And our king to the Holy One of Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Then You spoke in a vision to Your holy one, And said: "I have given help to one who is mighty; I have exalted one chosen from the people. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 I have found My servant David; With My holy oil I have anointed him,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 With whom My hand shall be established; Also My arm shall strengthen him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 The enemy shall not outwit him, Nor the son of wickedness afflict him.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 I will beat down his foes before his face, And plague those who hate him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 "But My faithfulness and My mercy shall be with him, And in My name his horn shall be exalted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Also I will set his hand over the sea, And his right hand over the rivers. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall cry to Me, "You are my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.' \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 Also I will make him My firstborn, The highest of the kings of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 My mercy I will keep for him forever, And My covenant shall stand firm with him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 His seed also I will make to endure forever, And his throne as the days of heaven. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 "If his sons forsake My law And do not walk in My judgments, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 If they break My statutes And do not keep My commandments, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I will punish their transgression with the rod, And their iniquity with stripes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 Nevertheless My lovingkindness I will not utterly take from him, Nor allow My faithfulness to fail. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 My covenant I will not break, Nor alter the word that has gone out of My lips. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 Once I have sworn by My holiness; I will not lie to David: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 His seed shall endure forever, And his throne as the sun before Me; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 It shall be established forever like the moon, Even like the faithful witness in the sky."Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 But You have cast off and abhorred, You have been furious with Your anointed. \cf1\up13\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 You have renounced the covenant of Your servant; You have profaned his crown \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 by casting it to the ground.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 You have broken down all his hedges; You have brought his strongholds to ruin. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 All who pass by the way plunder him; He is a reproach to his neighbors.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries; You have made all his enemies \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 rejoice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 You have also turned back the edge of his sword, And have not sustained him in the battle. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 44\cf0\up0\fs26 You have made his glory cease, And cast his throne down to the ground.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 45\cf0\up0\fs26 The days of his youth You have shortened; You have covered him with \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 shame.Selah\line\cf1\up13\fs16 46\cf0\up0\fs26 How long, LORD? Will You hide Yourself forever? Will Your wrath burn like fire? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 47\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember how short my time is; For what futility have You created all the children of men? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 48\cf0\up0\fs26 What man can live and not see death? Can he deliver his life from the power of the grave?Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 49\cf0\up0\fs26 Lord, where are Your former lovingkindnesses, Which You swore to David in Your truth? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 50\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember, Lord, the reproach of Your servants-- How I bear in my bosom the reproach of all the many peoples, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 51\cf0\up0\fs26 With which Your enemies have reproached, O LORD, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your anointed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 52\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD forevermore! Amen and Amen. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 90 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Lord, You have been our dwelling place in all generations.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever You had formed the earth and the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, You are God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 You turn man to destruction, And say, "Return, O children of men." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For a thousand years in Your sight Are like yesterday when it is past, And like a watch in the night. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You carry them away like a flood; They are like a sleep. In the morning they are like grass which grows up: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 In the morning it flourishes and grows up; In the evening it is cut down and withers. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For we have been consumed by Your anger, And by Your wrath we are terrified. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 You have set our iniquities before You, Our secret sins in the light of Your countenance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For all our days have passed away in Your wrath; We finish our years like a sigh. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The days of our lives are seventy years; And if by reason of strength they are eighty \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 years, Yet their boast is only labor and sorrow; For it is soon cut off, and we fly away. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Who knows the power of Your anger? For as the fear of You, so is Your wrath. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 So teach us to number our days, That we may gain a heart of wisdom.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Return, O LORD! How long? And have compassion on Your servants. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, satisfy us early with Your mercy, That we may rejoice and be glad all our days! \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Make us glad according to the days in which You have afflicted us, The years in \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 which we have seen evil.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your work appear to Your servants, And Your glory to their children. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us, And establish the work of our hands for us; Yes, establish the work of our hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 91 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High Shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I will say of the LORD, "He is my refuge and my fortress; My God, in Him I will trust." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely He shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler And from the perilous pestilence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall cover you with His feathers, And under His wings you shall take refuge; His truth shall be your shield and buckler. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall not be afraid of the terror by night, Nor of the arrow that flies by day,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, Nor of the destruction that lays waste at \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 noonday. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 A thousand may fall at your side, And ten thousand at your right hand; But it shall not come near you. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Only with your eyes shall you look, And see the reward of the wicked.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Because you have made the LORD, who is my refuge, Even the Most High, your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 dwelling place, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 No evil shall befall you, Nor shall any plague come near your dwelling; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 For He shall give His angels charge over you, To keep you in all your ways. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 In their hands they shall bear you up, Lest you dash your foot against a stone. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, The young lion and the serpent you shall trample underfoot. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 "Because he has set his love upon Me, therefore I will deliver him; I will set him on high, because he has known My name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him and honor him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 With long life I will satisfy him, And show him My salvation." \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 92 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 It is good to give thanks to the LORD, And to sing praises to Your name, O Most High; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning, And Your faithfulness every night, \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 On an instrument of ten strings, On the lute, And on the harp, With harmonious \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 sound. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For You, LORD, have made me glad through Your work; I will triumph in the works of Your hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD, how great are Your works! Your thoughts are very deep. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 A senseless man does not know, Nor does a fool understand this. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 When the wicked spring up like grass, And when all the workers of iniquity flourish, It is that they may be destroyed forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, LORD, are on high forevermore.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For behold, Your enemies, O LORD, For behold, Your enemies shall perish; All the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 workers of iniquity shall be scattered.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 But my horn You have exalted like a wild ox; I have been anointed with fresh oil. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 My eye also has seen my desire on my enemies; My ears hear my desire on the wicked Who rise up against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who are planted in the house of the LORD Shall flourish in the courts of our \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 They shall still bear fruit in old age; They shall be fresh and flourishing, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 To declare that the LORD is upright; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 93 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The LORD reigns, He is clothed with majesty; The LORD is clothed, He has girded Himself with strength. Surely the world is established, so that it cannot be moved. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Your throne is established from of old; You are from everlasting. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The floods have lifted up, O LORD, The floods have lifted up their voice; The floods lift up their waves. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD on high is mightier Than the noise of many waters, Than the mighty waves of the sea. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Your testimonies are very sure; Holiness adorns Your house, O LORD, forever. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 94 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD God, to whom vengeance belongs-- O God, to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Rise up, O Judge of the earth; Render punishment to the proud. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, how long will the wicked, How long will the wicked triumph? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 They utter speech, and speak insolent things; All the workers of iniquity boast in themselves. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They break in pieces Your people, O LORD, And afflict Your heritage. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 They slay the widow and the stranger, And murder the fatherless. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Yet they say, "The LORD does not see, Nor does the God of Jacob understand." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Understand, you senseless among the people; And you fools, when will you be wise? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He who planted the ear, shall He not hear? He who formed the eye, shall He not see? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 He who instructs the nations, shall He not correct, He who teaches man knowledge? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD knows the thoughts of man, That they are futile.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is the man whom You instruct, O LORD, And teach out of Your law, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 That You may give him rest from the days of adversity, Until the pit is dug for the wicked. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD will not cast off His people, Nor will He forsake His inheritance. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 But judgment will return to righteousness, And all the upright in heart will follow it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Unless the LORD had been my help, My soul would soon have settled in silence. \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 If I say, "My foot slips," Your mercy, O LORD, will hold me up.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 In the multitude of my anxieties within me, Your comforts delight my soul.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Shall the throne of iniquity, which devises evil by law, Have fellowship with You? \cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 They gather together against the life of the righteous, And condemn innocent blood. \cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 But the LORD has been my defense, And my God the rock of my refuge. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 He has brought on them their own iniquity, And shall cut them off in their own wickedness; The LORD our God shall cut them off. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 95 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh come, let us sing to the LORD! Let us shout joyfully to the Rock of our salvation. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving; Let us shout joyfully to Him with \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 psalms. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD is the great God, And the great King above all gods. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 In His hand are the deep places of the earth; The heights of the hills are His also. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The sea is His, for He made it; And His hands formed the dry land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh come, let us worship and bow down; Let us kneel before the LORD our Maker. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 For He is our God, And we are the people of His pasture, And the sheep of His hand. Today, if you will hear His voice: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 "Do not harden your hearts, as in the rebellion, As in the day of trial in the wilderness, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 When your fathers tested Me; They tried Me, though they saw My work.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For forty years I was grieved with that generation, And said, "It is a people who go \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 astray in their hearts, And they do not know My ways.' \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 So I swore in My wrath, "They shall not enter My rest.' \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 96 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, sing to the LORD a new song! Sing to the LORD, all the earth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to the LORD, bless His name; Proclaim the good news of His salvation from \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 day to day. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Declare His glory among the nations, His wonders among all peoples. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD is great and greatly to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For all the gods of the peoples are idols, But the LORD made the heavens. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Honor and majesty are before Him; Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Give to the LORD, O families of the peoples, Give to the LORD glory and strength. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Give to the LORD the glory due His name; Bring an offering, and come into His courts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness! Tremble before Him, all the earth. \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns; The world also is firmly established, It \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 shall not be moved; He shall judge the peoples righteously." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; Let the sea roar, and all its fullness; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the field be joyful, and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the woods will rejoice before the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For He is coming, for He is coming to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples with His truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 97 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The LORD reigns; Let the earth rejoice; Let the multitude of isles be glad!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Clouds and darkness surround Him; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 His throne. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 A fire goes before Him, And burns up His enemies round about. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 His lightnings light the world; The earth sees and trembles. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The mountains melt like wax at the presence of the LORD, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples see His glory.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Let all be put to shame who serve carved images, Who boast of idols. Worship Him, \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 all you gods. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Zion hears and is glad, And the daughters of Judah rejoice Because of Your judgments, O LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For You, LORD, are most high above all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 You who love the LORD, hate evil! He preserves the souls of His saints; He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Light is sown for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Rejoice in the LORD, you righteous, And give thanks at the remembrance of His \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 holy name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 98 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, sing to the LORD a new song! For He has done marvelous things; His right hand and His holy arm have gained Him the victory. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has made known His salvation; His righteousness He has revealed in the sight of the nations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He has remembered His mercy and His faithfulness to the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Shout joyfully to the LORD, all the earth; Break forth in song, rejoice, and sing praises. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to the LORD with the harp, With the harp and the sound of a psalm, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 With trumpets and the sound of a horn; Shout joyfully before the LORD, the King. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the sea roar, and all its fullness, The world and those who dwell in it; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the rivers clap their hands; Let the hills be joyful together before the LORD, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For He is coming to judge the earth. With righteousness He shall judge the world, And the peoples with equity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 99 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The LORD reigns; Let the peoples tremble! He dwells between the cherubim; Let the earth be moved! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is great in Zion, And He is high above all the peoples. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them praise Your great and awesome name-- He is holy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The King's strength also loves justice; You have established equity; You have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Exalt the LORD our God, And worship at His footstool-- He is holy.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Moses and Aaron were among His priests, And Samuel was among those who \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 called upon His name; They called upon the LORD, and He answered them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He spoke to them in the cloudy pillar; They kept His testimonies and the ordinance He gave them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 You answered them, O LORD our God; You were to them God-Who-Forgives, Though You took vengeance on their deeds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Exalt the LORD our God, And worship at His holy hill; For the LORD our God is holy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 100 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Make a joyful shout to the LORD, all you lands!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Serve the LORD with gladness; Come before His presence with singing. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Know that the LORD, He is God; It is He who has made us, and not we ourselves; We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, And into His courts with praise. Be thankful to Him, and bless His name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD is good; His mercy is everlasting, And His truth endures to all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 101 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will sing of mercy and justice; To You, O LORD, I will sing praises.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I will behave wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when will You come to me? I will walk \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 within my house with a perfect heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 I will set nothing wicked before my eyes; I hate the work of those who fall away; It shall not cling to me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 A perverse heart shall depart from me; I will not know wickedness.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, Him I will destroy; The one who has a \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 haughty look and a proud heart, Him I will not endure. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 My eyes shall be on the faithful of the land, That they may dwell with me; He who walks in a perfect way, He shall serve me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He who works deceit shall not dwell within my house; He who tells lies shall not continue in my presence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Early I will destroy all the wicked of the land, That I may cut off all the evildoers from the city of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 102 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear my prayer, O LORD, And let my cry come to You.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not hide Your face from me in the day of my trouble; Incline Your ear to me; In \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 the day that I call, answer me speedily. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For my days are consumed like smoke, And my bones are burned like a hearth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 My heart is stricken and withered like grass, So that I forget to eat my bread. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Because of the sound of my groaning My bones cling to my skin. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am like an owl of the desert. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 I lie awake, And am like a sparrow alone on the housetop. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 My enemies reproach me all day long; Those who deride me swear an oath against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For I have eaten ashes like bread, And mingled my drink with weeping,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Because of Your indignation and Your wrath; For You have lifted me up and cast \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 me away.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 My days are like a shadow that lengthens, And I wither away like grass. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O LORD, shall endure forever, And the remembrance of Your name to all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 You will arise and have mercy on Zion; For the time to favor her, Yes, the set time, has come. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your servants take pleasure in her stones, And show favor to her dust.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 So the nations shall fear the name of the LORD, And all the kings of the earth Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 glory.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD shall build up Zion; He shall appear in His glory.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall regard the prayer of the destitute, And shall not despise their prayer. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 This will be written for the generation to come, That a people yet to be created may praise the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 For He looked down from the height of His sanctuary; From heaven the LORD viewed the earth, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 To hear the groaning of the prisoner, To release those appointed to death,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, And His praise in Jerusalem,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve the LORD. \cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 He weakened my strength in the way; He shortened my days. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 I said, "O my God, Do not take me away in the midst of my days; Your years are throughout all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Of old You laid the foundation of the earth, And the heavens are the work of Your hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 They will perish, but You will endure; Yes, they will all grow old like a garment; Like a cloak You will change them, And they will be changed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 But You are the same, And Your years will have no end.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 The children of Your servants will continue, And their descendants will be \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 established before You." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 103 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, O my soul; And all that is within me, bless His holy name! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, O my soul, And forget not all His benefits: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Who forgives all your iniquities, Who heals all your diseases, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Who redeems your life from destruction, Who crowns you with lovingkindness and tender mercies, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Who satisfies your mouth with good things, So that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD executes righteousness And justice for all who are oppressed. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He made known His ways to Moses, His acts to the children of Israel.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is merciful and gracious, Slow to anger, and abounding in mercy. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He will not always strive with us, Nor will He keep His anger forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 He has not dealt with us according to our sins, Nor punished us according to our iniquities. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 For as the heavens are high above the earth, So great is His mercy toward those who fear Him; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our transgressions from us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 As a father pities his children, So the LORD pities those who fear Him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 For He knows our frame; He remembers that we are dust. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 As for man, his days are like grass; As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 For the wind passes over it, and it is gone, And its place remembers it no more. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting On those who fear Him, And His righteousness to children's children, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 To such as keep His covenant, And to those who remember His commandments to do them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has established His throne in heaven, And His kingdom rules over all. \cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, you His angels, Who excel in strength, who do His word, Heeding \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 the voice of His word.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, all you His hosts, You ministers of His, who do His pleasure. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, all His works, In all places of His dominion. Bless the LORD, O my soul! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 104 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, O my soul! O LORD my God, You are very great: You are clothed with honor and majesty, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Who cover Yourself with light as with a garment, Who stretch out the heavens like a curtain. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters, Who makes the clouds His chariot, Who walks on the wings of the wind, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Who makes His angels spirits, His ministers a flame of fire.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You who laid the foundations of the earth, So that it should not be moved forever, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 You covered it with the deep as with a garment; The waters stood above the mountains. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 At Your rebuke they fled; At the voice of Your thunder they hastened away.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They went up over the mountains; They went down into the valleys, To the place \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 which You founded for them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 You have set a boundary that they may not pass over, That they may not return to cover the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 He sends the springs into the valleys; They flow among the hills. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 By them the birds of the heavens have their home; They sing among the branches. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 He waters the hills from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of Your works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, And vegetation for the service of man, That he may bring forth food from the earth, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 And wine that makes glad the heart of man, Oil to make his face shine, And bread which strengthens man's heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The trees of the LORD are full of sap, The cedars of Lebanon which He planted, \cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Where the birds make their nests; The stork has her home in the fir trees.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 The high hills are for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge for the rock badgers. \cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 He appointed the moon for seasons; The sun knows its going down. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 You make darkness, and it is night, In which all the beasts of the forest creep about. \cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 The young lions roar after their prey, And seek their food from God.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 When the sun rises, they gather together And lie down in their dens.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Man goes out to his work And to his labor until the evening. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD, how manifold are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all. The earth is full of Your possessions-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 This great and wide sea, In which are innumerable teeming things, Living things both small and great. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 There the ships sail about; There is that Leviathan Which You have made to play there. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 These all wait for You, That You may give them their food in due season.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 What You give them they gather in; You open Your hand, they are filled with good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 You hide Your face, they are troubled; You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; And You renew the face of the earth. \cf1\up13\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 May the glory of the LORD endure forever; May the LORD rejoice in His works. \cf1\up13\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 He looks on the earth, and it trembles; He touches the hills, and they smoke. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 May my meditation be sweet to Him; I will be glad in the LORD.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 May sinners be consumed from the earth, And the wicked be no more. Bless the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 LORD, O my soul! Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 105 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the LORD! Call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to Him, sing psalms to Him; Talk of all His wondrous works! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Glory in His holy name; Let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Seek the LORD and His strength; Seek His face evermore! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember His marvelous works which He has done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 O seed of Abraham His servant, You children of Jacob, His chosen ones! \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 He remembers His covenant forever, The word which He commanded, for a thousand generations, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The covenant which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 And confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant, \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan As the allotment of your inheritance," \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 When they were few in number, Indeed very few, and strangers in it.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 When they went from one nation to another, From one kingdom to another people, \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 He permitted no one to do them wrong; Yes, He rebuked kings for their sakes, \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Saying, "Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm." \cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Moreover He called for a famine in the land; He destroyed all the provision of bread. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent a man before them-- Joseph--who was sold as a slave. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 They hurt his feet with fetters, He was laid in irons. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of the LORD tested him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 The king sent and released him, The ruler of the people let him go free. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 He made him lord of his house, And ruler of all his possessions, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 To bind his princes at his pleasure, And teach his elders wisdom. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Israel also came into Egypt, And Jacob dwelt in the land of Ham. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 He increased His people greatly, And made them stronger than their enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His servants. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent Moses His servant, And Aaron whom He had chosen. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 They performed His signs among them, And wonders in the land of Ham. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent darkness, and made it dark; And they did not rebel against His word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 He turned their waters into blood, And killed their fish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 Their land abounded with frogs, Even in the chambers of their kings. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, And lice in all their territory. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 He gave them hail for rain, And flaming fire in their land. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 He struck their vines also, and their fig trees, And splintered the trees of their territory. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 He spoke, and locusts came, Young locusts without number,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 And ate up all the vegetation in their land, And devoured the fruit of their ground. \cf1\up13\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 He also destroyed all the firstborn in their land, The first of all their strength. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 He also brought them out with silver and gold, And there was none feeble among His tribes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 Egypt was glad when they departed, For the fear of them had fallen upon them. \cf1\up13\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 He spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to give light in the night. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 The people asked, and He brought quail, And satisfied them with the bread of heaven. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 He opened the rock, and water gushed out; It ran in the dry places like a river. \cf1\up13\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 For He remembered His holy promise, And Abraham His servant.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 He brought out His people with joy, His chosen ones with gladness.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 44\cf0\up0\fs26 He gave them the lands of the Gentiles, And they inherited the labor of the nations, \cf1\up13\fs16 45\cf0\up0\fs26 That they might observe His statutes And keep His laws. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 106 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? Who can declare all His praise? \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed are those who keep justice, And he who does righteousness at all times! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember me, O LORD, with the favor You have toward Your people. Oh, visit me with Your salvation, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 That I may see the benefit of Your chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the gladness of Your nation, That I may glory with Your inheritance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 We have sinned with our fathers, We have committed iniquity, We have done wickedly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Our fathers in Egypt did not understand Your wonders; They did not remember the multitude of Your mercies, But rebelled by the sea--the Red Sea. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Nevertheless He saved them for His name's sake, That He might make His mighty power known. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it dried up; So He led them through the depths, As through the wilderness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 He saved them from the hand of him who hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The waters covered their enemies; There was not one of them left.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they believed His words; They sang His praise.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 They soon forgot His works; They did not wait for His counsel,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, And tested God in the desert.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 And He gave them their request, But sent leanness into their soul.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 When they envied Moses in the camp, And Aaron the saint of the LORD,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan, And covered the faction of Abiram. \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 A fire was kindled in their company; The flame burned up the wicked. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 They made a calf in Horeb, And worshiped the molded image. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus they changed their glory Into the image of an ox that eats grass. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 They forgot God their Savior, Who had done great things in Egypt, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Wondrous works in the land of Ham, Awesome things by the Red Sea. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore He said that He would destroy them, Had not Moses His chosen one stood before Him in the breach, To turn away His wrath, lest He destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they despised the pleasant land; They did not believe His word, \cf1\up13\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 But complained in their tents, And did not heed the voice of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore He raised His hand in an oath against them, To overthrow them in the wilderness, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 To overthrow their descendants among the nations, And to scatter them in the lands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 They joined themselves also to Baal of Peor, And ate sacrifices made to the dead. \cf1\up13\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus they provoked Him to anger with their deeds, And the plague broke out \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 among them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, And the plague was stopped. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 And that was accounted to him for righteousness To all generations forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 They angered Him also at the waters of strife, So that it went ill with Moses on account of them; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 Because they rebelled against His Spirit, So that he spoke rashly with his lips. \cf1\up13\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 They did not destroy the peoples, Concerning whom the LORD had commanded \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 them, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 But they mingled with the Gentiles And learned their works; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 They served their idols, Which became a snare to them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 They even sacrificed their sons And their daughters to demons, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 And shed innocent blood, The blood of their sons and daughters, Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with blood. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus they were defiled by their own works, And played the harlot by their own deeds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore the wrath of the LORD was kindled against His people, So that He abhorred His own inheritance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 And He gave them into the hand of the Gentiles, And those who hated them ruled over them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were brought into subjection under their hand. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 Many times He delivered them; But they rebelled in their counsel, And were brought low for their iniquity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 44\cf0\up0\fs26 Nevertheless He regarded their affliction, When He heard their cry;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 45\cf0\up0\fs26 And for their sake He remembered His covenant, And relented according to the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 multitude of His mercies.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 46\cf0\up0\fs26 He also made them to be pitied By all those who carried them away captive. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 47\cf0\up0\fs26 Save us, O LORD our God, And gather us from among the Gentiles, To give thanks to Your holy name, To triumph in Your praise. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 48\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel From everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, "Amen!" Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 107 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, Whom He has redeemed from the hand of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 the enemy, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 And gathered out of the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 They wandered in the wilderness in a desolate way; They found no city to dwell in. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted in them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He delivered them out of their distresses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 And He led them forth by the right way, That they might go to a city for a dwelling place. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His wonderful works to the children of men! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 For He satisfies the longing soul, And fills the hungry soul with goodness.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, Bound in affliction and \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 irons-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Because they rebelled against the words of God, And despised the counsel of the Most High, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore He brought down their heart with labor; They fell down, and there was none to help. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And broke their chains in pieces. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His wonderful works to the children of men! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 For He has broken the gates of bronze, And cut the bars of iron in two. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Fools, because of their transgression, And because of their iniquities, were afflicted. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Their soul abhorred all manner of food, And they drew near to the gates of death. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent His word and healed them, And delivered them from their destructions. \cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 wonderful works to the children of men! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And declare His works with rejoicing. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who go down to the sea in ships, Who do business on great waters, \cf1\up13\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 They see the works of the LORD, And His wonders in the deep. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 For He commands and raises the stormy wind, Which lifts up the waves of the sea. \cf1\up13\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 They mount up to the heavens, They go down again to the depths; Their soul melts \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 because of trouble.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, And are at their wits' end. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they cry out to the LORD in their trouble, And He brings them out of their distresses. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 He calms the storm, So that its waves are still.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they are glad because they are quiet; So He guides them to their desired \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 haven. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His wonderful works to the children of men! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them exalt Him also in the assembly of the people, And praise Him in the company of the elders. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 He turns rivers into a wilderness, And the watersprings into dry ground; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 A fruitful land into barrenness, For the wickedness of those who dwell in it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 He turns a wilderness into pools of water, And dry land into watersprings. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 There He makes the hungry dwell, That they may establish a city for a dwelling place, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 And sow fields and plant vineyards, That they may yield a fruitful harvest.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 He also blesses them, and they multiply greatly; And He does not let their cattle \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 decrease. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 When they are diminished and brought low Through oppression, affliction and sorrow, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 He pours contempt on princes, And causes them to wander in the wilderness where there is no way; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 Yet He sets the poor on high, far from affliction, And makes their families like a flock. \cf1\up13\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteous see it and rejoice, And all iniquity stops its mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 Whoever is wise will observe these things, And they will understand the lovingkindness of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 108 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Awake, lute and harp! I will awaken the dawn. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You, O LORD, among the peoples, And I will sing praises to You among the nations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your mercy is great above the heavens, And Your truth reaches to the clouds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, And Your glory above all the earth; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 That Your beloved may be delivered, Save with Your right hand, and hear me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 God has spoken in His holiness: "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Gilead is Mine; Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet for My head; Judah is My lawgiver. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Moab is My washpot; Over Edom I will cast My shoe; Over Philistia I will triumph." \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Is it not You, O God, who cast us off? And You, O God, who did not go out with our armies? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Give us help from trouble, For the help of man is useless.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Through God we will do valiantly, For it is He who shall tread down our enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 109 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Do not keep silent, O God of my praise!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful Have opened against \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 me; They have spoken against me with a lying tongue. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, And fought against me without a cause. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 In return for my love they are my accusers, But I give myself to prayer. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Thus they have rewarded me evil for good, And hatred for my love.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Set a wicked man over him, And let an accuser stand at his right hand. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 When he is judged, let him be found guilty, And let his prayer become sin. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Let his days be few, And let another take his office. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Let his children be fatherless, And his wife a widow.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Let his children continually be vagabonds, and beg; Let them seek their bread also \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 from their desolate places.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the creditor seize all that he has, And let strangers plunder his labor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Let there be none to extend mercy to him, Nor let there be any to favor his fatherless children. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Let his posterity be cut off, And in the generation following let their name be blotted out. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, And let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be continually before the LORD, That He may cut off the memory of them from the earth; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Because he did not remember to show mercy, But persecuted the poor and needy man, That he might even slay the broken in heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 As he loved cursing, so let it come to him; As he did not delight in blessing, so let it be far from him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 As he clothed himself with cursing as with his garment, So let it enter his body like water, And like oil into his bones. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Let it be to him like the garment which covers him, And for a belt with which he girds himself continually. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Let this be the LORD's reward to my accusers, And to those who speak evil against my person. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 But You, O GOD the Lord, Deal with me for Your name's sake; Because Your mercy is good, deliver me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 For I am poor and needy, And my heart is wounded within me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 I am gone like a shadow when it lengthens; I am shaken off like a locust. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 My knees are weak through fasting, And my flesh is feeble from lack of fatness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 I also have become a reproach to them; When they look at me, they shake their heads. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Help me, O LORD my God! Oh, save me according to Your mercy,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 That they may know that this is Your hand-- That You, LORD, have done it! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them curse, but You bless; When they arise, let them be ashamed, But let Your servant rejoice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my accusers be clothed with shame, And let them cover themselves with their own disgrace as with a mantle. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; Yes, I will praise Him among the multitude. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 For He shall stand at the right hand of the poor, To save him from those who condemn him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 110 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 The LORD said to my Lord, "Sit at My right hand, Till I make Your enemies Your footstool." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD shall send the rod of Your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of Your enemies! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Your people shall be volunteers In the day of Your power; In the beauties of holiness, from the womb of the morning, You have the dew of Your youth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has sworn And will not relent, "You are a priest forever According to the order of Melchizedek." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The Lord is at Your right hand; He shall execute kings in the day of His wrath.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall judge among the nations, He shall fill the places with dead bodies, He shall \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 execute the heads of many countries.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He shall drink of the brook by the wayside; Therefore He shall lift up the head. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 111 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, In the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The works of the LORD are great, Studied by all who have pleasure in them. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 His work is honorable and glorious, And His righteousness endures forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He has made His wonderful works to be remembered; The LORD is gracious and full of compassion. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 He has given food to those who fear Him; He will ever be mindful of His covenant. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He has declared to His people the power of His works, In giving them the heritage of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 the nations.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The works of His hands are verity and justice; All His precepts are sure. \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 They stand fast forever and ever, And are done in truth and uprightness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He has sent redemption to His people; He has commanded His covenant forever: Holy and awesome is His name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; A good understanding have all those who do His commandments. His praise endures forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 112 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Blessed is the man who fears the LORD, Who delights greatly in His commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 His descendants will be mighty on earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Wealth and riches will be in his house, And his righteousness endures forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Unto the upright there arises light in the darkness; He is gracious, and full of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 compassion, and righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 A good man deals graciously and lends; He will guide his affairs with discretion. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely he will never be shaken; The righteous will be in everlasting remembrance. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He will not be afraid of evil tidings; His heart is steadfast, trusting in the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 His heart is established; He will not be afraid, Until he sees his desire upon his enemies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He has dispersed abroad, He has given to the poor; His righteousness endures forever; His horn will be exalted with honor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked will see it and be grieved; He will gnash his teeth and melt away; The desire of the wicked shall perish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 113 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Praise, O servants of the LORD, Praise the name of the LORD! \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the name of the LORD From this time forth and forevermore!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 From the rising of the sun to its going down The LORD's name is to be praised. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is high above all nations, His glory above the heavens. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Who is like the LORD our God, Who dwells on high, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Who humbles Himself to behold The things that are in the heavens and in the earth? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He raises the poor out of the dust, And lifts the needy out of the ash heap, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 That He may seat him with princes-- With the princes of His people. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He grants the barren woman a home, Like a joyful mother of children. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 114 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 When Israel went out of Egypt, The house of Jacob from a people of strange language, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Judah became His sanctuary, And Israel His dominion.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The sea saw it and fled; Jordan turned back.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The mountains skipped like rams, The little hills like lambs.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 What ails you, O sea, that you fled? O Jordan, that you turned back?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 O mountains, that you skipped like rams? O little hills, like lambs?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, At the presence of the God of Jacob, \cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Who turned the rock into a pool of water, The flint into a fountain of waters. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 115 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, But to Your name give glory, Because of Your mercy, Because of Your truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Why should the Gentiles say, "So where is their God?" \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 But our God is in heaven; He does whatever He pleases. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Their idols are silver and gold, The work of men's hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 They have mouths, but they do not speak; Eyes they have, but they do not see; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 They have ears, but they do not hear; Noses they have, but they do not smell; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 They have hands, but they do not handle; Feet they have, but they do not walk; Nor do they mutter through their throat. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who make them are like them; So is everyone who trusts in them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 O Israel, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has been mindful of us; He will bless us; He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 He will bless those who fear the LORD, Both small and great. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 May the LORD give you increase more and more, You and your children. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 May you be blessed by the LORD, Who made heaven and earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's; But the earth He has given to the children of men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The dead do not praise the LORD, Nor any who go down into silence.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 But we will bless the LORD From this time forth and forevermore. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 116 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I love the LORD, because He has heard My voice and my supplications. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Because He has inclined His ear to me, Therefore I will call upon Him as long as I live. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The pains of death surrounded me, And the pangs of Sheol laid hold of me; I found trouble and sorrow. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I called upon the name of the LORD: "O LORD, I implore You, deliver my soul!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; Yes, our God is merciful. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD preserves the simple; I was brought low, and He saved me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Return to your rest, O my soul, For the LORD has dealt bountifully with you. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 For You have delivered my soul from death, My eyes from tears, And my feet from falling. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will walk before the LORD In the land of the living.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 I believed, therefore I spoke, "I am greatly afflicted."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 I said in my haste, "All men are liars."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 What shall I render to the LORD For all His benefits toward me?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 I will take up the cup of salvation, And call upon the name of the LORD. \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 I will pay my vows to the LORD Now in the presence of all His people. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Precious in the sight of the LORD Is the death of His saints. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 O LORD, truly I am Your servant; I am Your servant, the son of Your maidservant; You have loosed my bonds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 I will offer to You the sacrifice of thanksgiving, And will call upon the name of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 I will pay my vows to the LORD Now in the presence of all His people, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 In the courts of the LORD's house, In the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 117 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD, all you Gentiles! Laud Him, all you peoples!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 For His merciful kindness is great toward us, And the truth of the LORD endures \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 forever. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 118 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Israel now say, "His mercy endures forever."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the house of Aaron now say, "His mercy endures forever."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Let those who fear the LORD now say, "His mercy endures forever." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I called on the LORD in distress; The LORD answered me and set me in a broad place. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is for me among those who help me; Therefore I shall see my desire on \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 those who hate me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 It is better to trust in the LORD Than to put confidence in man. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 It is better to trust in the LORD Than to put confidence in princes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 All nations surrounded me, But in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 They surrounded me, Yes, they surrounded me; But in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 They surrounded me like bees; They were quenched like a fire of thorns; For in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 You pushed me violently, that I might fall, But the LORD helped me. \cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 The voice of rejoicing and salvation Is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of the LORD does valiantly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 The right hand of the LORD is exalted; The right hand of the LORD does valiantly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has chastened me severely, But He has not given me over to death. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will go through them, And I will praise the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 This is the gate of the LORD, Through which the righteous shall enter. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You, For You have answered me, And have become my salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 The stone which the builders rejected Has become the chief cornerstone. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 This was the LORD's doing; It is marvelous in our eyes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 This is the day the LORD has made; We will rejoice and be glad in it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Save now, I pray, O LORD; O LORD, I pray, send now prosperity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD! We have blessed you from the house of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 God is the LORD, And He has given us light; Bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 You are my God, and I will praise You; You are my God, I will exalt You. \cf1\up13\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 119 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Blessed are the undefiled in the way, Who walk in the law of the LORD!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed are those who keep His testimonies, Who seek Him with the whole heart! \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 They also do no iniquity; They walk in His ways.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 You have commanded us To keep Your precepts diligently. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that my ways were directed To keep Your statutes! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Then I would not be ashamed, When I look into all Your commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You with uprightness of heart, When I learn Your righteous judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 I will keep Your statutes; Oh, do not forsake me utterly! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 With my whole heart I have sought You; Oh, let me not wander from Your commandments! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Your word I have hidden in my heart, That I might not sin against You. \cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed are You, O LORD! Teach me Your statutes.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 With my lips I have declared All the judgments of Your mouth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, As much as in all riches. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 I will meditate on Your precepts, And contemplate Your ways. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 I will delight myself in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 Deal bountifully with Your servant, That I may live and keep Your word.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Open my eyes, that I may see Wondrous things from Your law.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 I am a stranger in the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul breaks with longing For Your judgments at all times.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 You rebuke the proud--the cursed, Who stray from Your commandments.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 Remove from me reproach and contempt, For I have kept Your testimonies. \cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Princes also sit and speak against me, But Your servant meditates on Your statutes. \cf1\up13\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 Your testimonies also are my delight And my counselors. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul clings to the dust; Revive me according to Your word.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 I have declared my ways, and You answered me; Teach me Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 27\cf0\up0\fs26 Make me understand the way of Your precepts; So shall I meditate on Your wonderful works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 28\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul melts from heaviness; Strengthen me according to Your word. \cf1\up13\fs16 29\cf0\up0\fs26 Remove from me the way of lying, And grant me Your law graciously. \cf1\up13\fs16 30\cf0\up0\fs26 I have chosen the way of truth; Your judgments I have laid before me. \cf1\up13\fs16 31\cf0\up0\fs26 I cling to Your testimonies; O LORD, do not put me to shame! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 32\cf0\up0\fs26 I will run the course of Your commandments, For You shall enlarge my heart. \cf1\up13\fs16 33\cf0\up0\fs26 Teach me, O LORD, the way of Your statutes, And I shall keep it to the end. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 34\cf0\up0\fs26 Give me understanding, and I shall keep Your law; Indeed, I shall observe it with my whole heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 35\cf0\up0\fs26 Make me walk in the path of Your commandments, For I delight in it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 36\cf0\up0\fs26 Incline my heart to Your testimonies, And not to covetousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 37\cf0\up0\fs26 Turn away my eyes from looking at worthless things, And revive me in Your way. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 38\cf0\up0\fs26 Establish Your word to Your servant, Who is devoted to fearing You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 39\cf0\up0\fs26 Turn away my reproach which I dread, For Your judgments are good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 40\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, I long for Your precepts; Revive me in Your righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 41\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your mercies come also to me, O LORD-- Your salvation according to Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 42\cf0\up0\fs26 So shall I have an answer for him who reproaches me, For I trust in Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 43\cf0\up0\fs26 And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, For I have hoped in Your ordinances. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 44\cf0\up0\fs26 So shall I keep Your law continually, Forever and ever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 45\cf0\up0\fs26 And I will walk at liberty, For I seek Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 46\cf0\up0\fs26 I will speak of Your testimonies also before kings, And will not be ashamed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 47\cf0\up0\fs26 And I will delight myself in Your commandments, Which I love. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 48\cf0\up0\fs26 My hands also I will lift up to Your commandments, Which I love, And I will meditate on Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 49\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember the word to Your servant, Upon which You have caused me to hope. \cf1\up13\fs16 50\cf0\up0\fs26 This is my comfort in my affliction, For Your word has given me life.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 51\cf0\up0\fs26 The proud have me in great derision, Yet I do not turn aside from Your law.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 52\cf0\up0\fs26 I remembered Your judgments of old, O LORD, And have comforted myself. \cf1\up13\fs16 53\cf0\up0\fs26 Indignation has taken hold of me Because of the wicked, who forsake Your law. \cf1\up13\fs16 54\cf0\up0\fs26 Your statutes have been my songs In the house of my pilgrimage. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 55\cf0\up0\fs26 I remember Your name in the night, O LORD, And I keep Your law. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 56\cf0\up0\fs26 This has become mine, Because I kept Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 57\cf0\up0\fs26 You are my portion, O LORD; I have said that I would keep Your words. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 58\cf0\up0\fs26 I entreated Your favor with my whole heart; Be merciful to me according to Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 59\cf0\up0\fs26 I thought about my ways, And turned my feet to Your testimonies.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 60\cf0\up0\fs26 I made haste, and did not delay To keep Your commandments.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 61\cf0\up0\fs26 The cords of the wicked have bound me, But I have not forgotten Your law.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 62\cf0\up0\fs26 At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You, Because of Your righteous judgments. \cf1\up13\fs16 63\cf0\up0\fs26 I am a companion of all who fear You, And of those who keep Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 64\cf0\up0\fs26 The earth, O LORD, is full of Your mercy; Teach me Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 65\cf0\up0\fs26 You have dealt well with Your servant, O LORD, according to Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 66\cf0\up0\fs26 Teach me good judgment and knowledge, For I believe Your commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 67\cf0\up0\fs26 Before I was afflicted I went astray, But now I keep Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 68\cf0\up0\fs26 You are good, and do good; Teach me Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 69\cf0\up0\fs26 The proud have forged a lie against me, But I will keep Your precepts with my whole heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 70\cf0\up0\fs26 Their heart is as fat as grease, But I delight in Your law. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 71\cf0\up0\fs26 It is good for me that I have been afflicted, That I may learn Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 72\cf0\up0\fs26 The law of Your mouth is better to me Than thousands of coins of gold and silver. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 73\cf0\up0\fs26 Your hands have made me and fashioned me; Give me understanding, that I may learn Your commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 74\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who fear You will be glad when they see me, Because I have hoped in Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 75\cf0\up0\fs26 I know, O LORD, that Your judgments are right, And that in faithfulness You have afflicted me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 76\cf0\up0\fs26 Let, I pray, Your merciful kindness be for my comfort, According to Your word to Your servant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 77\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your tender mercies come to me, that I may live; For Your law is my delight. \cf1\up13\fs16 78\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the proud be ashamed, For they treated me wrongfully with falsehood; But I will \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 meditate on Your precepts.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 79\cf0\up0\fs26 Let those who fear You turn to me, Those who know Your testimonies.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 80\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my heart be blameless regarding Your statutes, That I may not be ashamed. \cf1\up13\fs16 81\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul faints for Your salvation, But I hope in Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 82\cf0\up0\fs26 My eyes fail from searching Your word, Saying, "When will You comfort me?" \cf1\up13\fs16 83\cf0\up0\fs26 For I have become like a wineskin in smoke, Yet I do not forget Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 84\cf0\up0\fs26 How many are the days of Your servant? When will You execute judgment on those who persecute me? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 85\cf0\up0\fs26 The proud have dug pits for me, Which is not according to Your law. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 86\cf0\up0\fs26 All Your commandments are faithful; They persecute me wrongfully; Help me! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 87\cf0\up0\fs26 They almost made an end of me on earth, But I did not forsake Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 88\cf0\up0\fs26 Revive me according to Your lovingkindness, So that I may keep the testimony of Your mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 89\cf0\up0\fs26 Forever, O LORD, Your word is settled in heaven.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 90\cf0\up0\fs26 Your faithfulness endures to all generations; You established the earth, and it \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 abides. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 91\cf0\up0\fs26 They continue this day according to Your ordinances, For all are Your servants. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 92\cf0\up0\fs26 Unless Your law had been my delight, I would then have perished in my affliction. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 93\cf0\up0\fs26 I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have given me life. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 94\cf0\up0\fs26 I am Yours, save me; For I have sought Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 95\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked wait for me to destroy me, But I will consider Your testimonies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 96\cf0\up0\fs26 I have seen the consummation of all perfection, But Your commandment is exceedingly broad. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 97\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 98\cf0\up0\fs26 You, through Your commandments, make me wiser than my enemies; For they are \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 ever with me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 99\cf0\up0\fs26 I have more understanding than all my teachers, For Your testimonies are my meditation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 100\cf0\up0\fs26 I understand more than the ancients, Because I keep Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 101\cf0\up0\fs26 I have restrained my feet from every evil way, That I may keep Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 102\cf0\up0\fs26 I have not departed from Your judgments, For You Yourself have taught me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 103\cf0\up0\fs26 How sweet are Your words to my taste, Sweeter than honey to my mouth! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 104\cf0\up0\fs26 Through Your precepts I get understanding; Therefore I hate every false way. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 105\cf0\up0\fs26 Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 106\cf0\up0\fs26 I have sworn and confirmed That I will keep Your righteous judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 107\cf0\up0\fs26 I am afflicted very much; Revive me, O LORD, according to Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 108\cf0\up0\fs26 Accept, I pray, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, And teach me Your judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 109\cf0\up0\fs26 My life is continually in my hand, Yet I do not forget Your law.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 110\cf0\up0\fs26 The wicked have laid a snare for me, Yet I have not strayed from Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 111\cf0\up0\fs26 Your testimonies I have taken as a heritage forever, For they are the rejoicing of my heart. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 112\cf0\up0\fs26 I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes Forever, to the very end. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 113\cf0\up0\fs26 I hate the double-minded, But I love Your law. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 114\cf0\up0\fs26 You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 115\cf0\up0\fs26 Depart from me, you evildoers, For I will keep the commandments of my God! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 116\cf0\up0\fs26 Uphold me according to Your word, that I may live; And do not let me be ashamed of my hope. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 117\cf0\up0\fs26 Hold me up, and I shall be safe, And I shall observe Your statutes continually. \cf1\up13\fs16 118\cf0\up0\fs26 You reject all those who stray from Your statutes, For their deceit is falsehood. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 119\cf0\up0\fs26 You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross; Therefore I love Your testimonies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 120\cf0\up0\fs26 My flesh trembles for fear of You, And I am afraid of Your judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 121\cf0\up0\fs26 I have done justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to my oppressors. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 122\cf0\up0\fs26 Be surety for Your servant for good; Do not let the proud oppress me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 123\cf0\up0\fs26 My eyes fail from seeking Your salvation And Your righteous word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 124\cf0\up0\fs26 Deal with Your servant according to Your mercy, And teach me Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 125\cf0\up0\fs26 I am Your servant; Give me understanding, That I may know Your testimonies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 126\cf0\up0\fs26 It is time for You to act, O LORD, For they have regarded Your law as void. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 127\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore I love Your commandments More than gold, yes, than fine gold! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 128\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore all Your precepts concerning all things I consider to be right; I hate every false way. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 129\cf0\up0\fs26 Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul keeps them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 130\cf0\up0\fs26 The entrance of Your words gives light; It gives understanding to the simple. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 131\cf0\up0\fs26 I opened my mouth and panted, For I longed for Your commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 132\cf0\up0\fs26 Look upon me and be merciful to me, As Your custom is toward those who love Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 133\cf0\up0\fs26 Direct my steps by Your word, And let no iniquity have dominion over me. \cf1\up13\fs16 134\cf0\up0\fs26 Redeem me from the oppression of man, That I may keep Your precepts. \cf1\up13\fs16 135\cf0\up0\fs26 Make Your face shine upon Your servant, And teach me Your statutes. \cf1\up13\fs16 136\cf0\up0\fs26 Rivers of water run down from my eyes, Because men do not keep Your law. \cf1\up13\fs16 137\cf0\up0\fs26 Righteous are You, O LORD, And upright are Your judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 138\cf0\up0\fs26 Your testimonies, which You have commanded, Are righteous and very faithful. \cf1\up13\fs16 139\cf0\up0\fs26 My zeal has consumed me, Because my enemies have forgotten Your words. \cf1\up13\fs16 140\cf0\up0\fs26 Your word is very pure; Therefore Your servant loves it.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 141\cf0\up0\fs26 I am small and despised, Yet I do not forget Your precepts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 142\cf0\up0\fs26 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And Your law is truth. \cf1\up13\fs16 143\cf0\up0\fs26 Trouble and anguish have overtaken me, Yet Your commandments are my \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 delights. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 144\cf0\up0\fs26 The righteousness of Your testimonies is everlasting; Give me understanding, and I shall live. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 145\cf0\up0\fs26 I cry out with my whole heart; Hear me, O LORD! I will keep Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 146\cf0\up0\fs26 I cry out to You; Save me, and I will keep Your testimonies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 147\cf0\up0\fs26 I rise before the dawning of the morning, And cry for help; I hope in Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 148\cf0\up0\fs26 My eyes are awake through the night watches, That I may meditate on Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 149\cf0\up0\fs26 Hear my voice according to Your lovingkindness; O LORD, revive me according to Your justice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 150\cf0\up0\fs26 They draw near who follow after wickedness; They are far from Your law. \cf1\up13\fs16 151\cf0\up0\fs26 You are near, O LORD, And all Your commandments are truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 152\cf0\up0\fs26 Concerning Your testimonies, I have known of old that You have founded them forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 153\cf0\up0\fs26 Consider my affliction and deliver me, For I do not forget Your law.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 154\cf0\up0\fs26 Plead my cause and redeem me; Revive me according to Your word.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 155\cf0\up0\fs26 Salvation is far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 156\cf0\up0\fs26 Great are Your tender mercies, O LORD; Revive me according to Your judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 157\cf0\up0\fs26 Many are my persecutors and my enemies, Yet I do not turn from Your testimonies. \cf1\up13\fs16 158\cf0\up0\fs26 I see the treacherous, and am disgusted, Because they do not keep Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 159\cf0\up0\fs26 Consider how I love Your precepts; Revive me, O LORD, according to Your lovingkindness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 160\cf0\up0\fs26 The entirety of Your word is truth, And every one of Your righteous judgments endures forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 161\cf0\up0\fs26 Princes persecute me without a cause, But my heart stands in awe of Your word. \cf1\up13\fs16 162\cf0\up0\fs26 I rejoice at Your word As one who finds great treasure.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 163\cf0\up0\fs26 I hate and abhor lying, But I love Your law.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 164\cf0\up0\fs26 Seven times a day I praise You, Because of Your righteous judgments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 165\cf0\up0\fs26 Great peace have those who love Your law, And nothing causes them to stumble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 166\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, I hope for Your salvation, And I do Your commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 167\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul keeps Your testimonies, And I love them exceedingly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 168\cf0\up0\fs26 I keep Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways are before You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 169\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my cry come before You, O LORD; Give me understanding according to Your word. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 170\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my supplication come before You; Deliver me according to Your word. \cf1\up13\fs16 171\cf0\up0\fs26 My lips shall utter praise, For You teach me Your statutes. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 172\cf0\up0\fs26 My tongue shall speak of Your word, For all Your commandments are righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 173\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your hand become my help, For I have chosen Your precepts.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 174\cf0\up0\fs26 I long for Your salvation, O LORD, And Your law is my delight.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 175\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my soul live, and it shall praise You; And let Your judgments help me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 176\cf0\up0\fs26 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; Seek Your servant, For I do not forget Your commandments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 120 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 In my distress I cried to the LORD, And He heard me.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips And from a deceitful tongue. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 What shall be given to you, Or what shall be done to you, You false tongue? \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Sharp arrows of the warrior, With coals of the broom tree!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Woe is me, that I dwell in Meshech, That I dwell among the tents of Kedar! \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul has dwelt too long With one who hates peace.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 I am for peace; But when I speak, they are for war. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 121 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will lift up my eyes to the hills-- From whence comes my help?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 My help comes from the LORD, Who made heaven and earth.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He will not allow your foot to be moved; He who keeps you will not slumber. \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, He who keeps Israel Shall neither slumber nor sleep.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is your keeper; The LORD is your shade at your right hand. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The sun shall not strike you by day, Nor the moon by night.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD shall preserve you from all evil; He shall preserve your soul. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD shall preserve your going out and your coming in From this time forth, and even forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 122 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I was glad when they said to me, "Let us go into the house of the LORD." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Our feet have been standing Within your gates, O Jerusalem! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Jerusalem is built As a city that is compact together, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Where the tribes go up, The tribes of the LORD, To the Testimony of Israel, To give thanks to the name of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For thrones are set there for judgment, The thrones of the house of David.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: "May they prosper who love you.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Peace be within your walls, Prosperity within your palaces."\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 For the sake of my brethren and companions, I will now say, "Peace be within you." \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek your good. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 123 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Unto You I lift up my eyes, O You who dwell in the heavens. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their masters, As the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress, So our eyes look to the LORD our God, Until He has mercy on us. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Have mercy on us, O LORD, have mercy on us! For we are exceedingly filled with contempt. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Our soul is exceedingly filled With the scorn of those who are at ease, With the contempt of the proud. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 124 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 "If it had not been the LORD who was on our side," Let Israel now say--\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 "If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, When men rose up against us, \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Then they would have swallowed us alive, When their wrath was kindled against us; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Then the waters would have overwhelmed us, The stream would have gone over our soul; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Then the swollen waters Would have gone over our soul." \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD, Who has not given us as prey to their teeth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Our soul has escaped as a bird from the snare of the fowlers; The snare is broken, and we have escaped. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Our help is in the name of the LORD, Who made heaven and earth. \cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 125 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Those who trust in the LORD Are like Mount Zion, Which cannot be moved, but abides forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, So the LORD surrounds His people From this time forth and forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest On the land allotted to the righteous, Lest the righteous reach out their hands to iniquity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Do good, O LORD, to those who are good, And to those who are upright in their hearts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 As for such as turn aside to their crooked ways, The LORD shall lead them away With the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 126 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 When the LORD brought back the captivity of Zion, We were like those who dream. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Then our mouth was filled with laughter, And our tongue with singing. Then they said \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 among the nations, "The LORD has done great things for them." \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has done great things for us, And we are glad. \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Bring back our captivity, O LORD, As the streams in the South. \cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who sow in tears Shall reap in joy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He who continually goes forth weeping, Bearing seed for sowing, Shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, Bringing his sheaves with him. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 127 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Unless the LORD builds the house, They labor in vain who build it; Unless the LORD guards the city, The watchman stays awake in vain. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 It is vain for you to rise up early, To sit up late, To eat the bread of sorrows; For so He gives His beloved sleep. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, children are a heritage from the LORD, The fruit of the womb is a reward. \cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, So are the children of one's youth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them; They shall not be ashamed, But shall speak with their enemies in the gate. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 128 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Blessed is every one who fears the LORD, Who walks in His ways.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 When you eat the labor of your hands, You shall be happy, and it shall be well with \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 you. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine In the very heart of your house, Your children like olive plants All around your table. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, thus shall the man be blessed Who fears the LORD.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD bless you out of Zion, And may you see the good of Jerusalem All the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 days of your life.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Yes, may you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 129 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 "Many a time they have afflicted me from my youth," Let Israel now say-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 "Many a time they have afflicted me from my youth; Yet they have not prevailed against me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The plowers plowed on my back; They made their furrows long." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is righteous; He has cut in pieces the cords of the wicked. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let all those who hate Zion Be put to shame and turned back. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them be as the grass on the housetops, Which withers before it grows up, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 With which the reaper does not fill his hand, Nor he who binds sheaves, his arms. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Neither let those who pass by them say, "The blessing of the LORD be upon you; We bless you in the name of the LORD!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 130 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Out of the depths I have cried to You, O LORD; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Lord, hear my voice! Let Your ears be attentive To the voice of my supplications. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 If You, LORD, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 But there is forgiveness with You, That You may be feared. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I wait for the LORD, my soul waits, And in His word I do hope. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 My soul waits for the Lord More than those who watch for the morning-- Yes, more than those who watch for the morning. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 O Israel, hope in the LORD; For with the LORD there is mercy, And with Him is abundant redemption. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 And He shall redeem Israel From all his iniquities. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 131 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 LORD, my heart is not haughty, Nor my eyes lofty. Neither do I concern myself with great matters, Nor with things too profound for me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely I have calmed and quieted my soul, Like a weaned child with his mother; Like a weaned child is my soul within me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 O Israel, hope in the LORD From this time forth and forever. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 132 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 LORD, remember David And all his afflictions;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 How he swore to the LORD, And vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 "Surely I will not go into the chamber of my house, Or go up to the comfort of my bed; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 I will not give sleep to my eyes Or slumber to my eyelids, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Until I find a place for the LORD, A dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah; We found it in the fields of the woods. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Let us go into His tabernacle; Let us worship at His footstool. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Arise, O LORD, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness, And let Your saints shout for joy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 For Your servant David's sake, Do not turn away the face of Your Anointed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD has sworn in truth to David; He will not turn from it: "I will set upon your throne the fruit of your body. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 If your sons will keep My covenant And My testimony which I shall teach them, Their sons also shall sit upon your throne forevermore." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD has chosen Zion; He has desired it for His dwelling place:\line\cf1\up13\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 "This is My resting place forever; Here I will dwell, for I have desired it.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 I will abundantly bless her provision; I will satisfy her poor with bread.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 I will also clothe her priests with salvation, And her saints shall shout aloud for joy. \cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 There I will make the horn of David grow; I will prepare a lamp for My Anointed. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 His enemies I will clothe with shame, But upon Himself His crown shall flourish." \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 133 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Behold, how good and how pleasant it is For brethren to dwell together in unity!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 It is like the precious oil upon the head, Running down on the beard, The beard of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 Aaron, Running down on the edge of his garments. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 It is like the dew of Hermon, Descending upon the mountains of Zion; For there the LORD commanded the blessing-- Life forevermore. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 134 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Behold, bless the LORD, All you servants of the LORD, Who by night stand in the house of the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, And bless the LORD. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD who made heaven and earth Bless you from Zion! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 135 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD; Praise Him, O you servants of the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You who stand in the house of the LORD, In the courts of the house of our God, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; Sing praises to His name, for it is pleasant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel for His special treasure. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 For I know that the LORD is great, And our Lord is above all gods. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Whatever the LORD pleases He does, In heaven and in earth, In the seas and in all deep places. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; He makes lightning for the rain; He brings the wind out of His treasuries. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 He destroyed the firstborn of Egypt, Both of man and beast. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh and all his servants. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 He defeated many nations And slew mighty kings-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 And gave their land as a heritage, A heritage to Israel His people. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Your name, O LORD, endures forever, Your fame, O LORD, throughout all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD will judge His people, And He will have compassion on His servants. \cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, The work of men's hands.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 They have mouths, but they do not speak; Eyes they have, but they do not see; \cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 They have ears, but they do not hear; Nor is there any breath in their mouths. \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 Those who make them are like them; So is everyone who trusts in them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, O house of Israel! Bless the LORD, O house of Aaron! \cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 Bless the LORD, O house of Levi! You who fear the LORD, bless the LORD! \cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, Who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 136 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the God of gods! For His mercy endures forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the Lord of lords! For His mercy endures forever:\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who alone does great wonders, For His mercy endures forever; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who by wisdom made the heavens, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who laid out the earth above the waters, For His mercy endures forever; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who made great lights, For His mercy endures forever--\line\cf1\up13\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The sun to rule by day, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The moon and stars to rule by night, For His mercy endures forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who struck Egypt in their firstborn, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 And brought out Israel from among them, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, For His mercy endures forever; \cf1\up13\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who divided the Red Sea in two, For His mercy endures forever; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 And made Israel pass through the midst of it, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 But overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, For His mercy endures \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who led His people through the wilderness, For His mercy endures forever; \cf1\up13\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 To Him who struck down great kings, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 And slew famous kings, For His mercy endures forever--\line\cf1\up13\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Sihon king of the Amorites, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 And Og king of Bashan, For His mercy endures forever--\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 And gave their land as a heritage, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 A heritage to Israel His servant, For His mercy endures forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Who remembered us in our lowly state, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 And rescued us from our enemies, For His mercy endures forever;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 25\cf0\up0\fs26 Who gives food to all flesh, For His mercy endures forever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 26\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, give thanks to the God of heaven! For His mercy endures forever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 137 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat down, yea, we wept When we remembered Zion. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 We hung our harps Upon the willows in the midst of it.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For there those who carried us away captive asked of us a song, And those who \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 plundered us requested mirth, Saying, "Sing us one of the songs of Zion!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 How shall we sing the LORD's song In a foreign land? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, Let my right hand forget its skill! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 If I do not remember you, Let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth-- If I do not exalt Jerusalem Above my chief joy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Remember, O LORD, against the sons of Edom The day of Jerusalem, Who said, "Raze it, raze it, To its very foundation!" \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 O daughter of Babylon, who are to be destroyed, Happy the one who repays you as you have served us! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Happy the one who takes and dashes Your little ones against the rock! \cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 138 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will praise You with my whole heart; Before the gods I will sing praises to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I will worship toward Your holy temple, And praise Your name For Your lovingkindness and Your truth; For You have magnified Your word above all Your name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 In the day when I cried out, You answered me, And made me bold with strength in my soul. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 All the kings of the earth shall praise You, O LORD, When they hear the words of Your mouth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the LORD, For great is the glory of the LORD. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Though the LORD is on high, Yet He regards the lowly; But the proud He knows from afar. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Though I walk in the midst of trouble, You will revive me; You will stretch out Your hand Against the wrath of my enemies, And Your right hand will save me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD will perfect that which concerns me; Your mercy, O LORD, endures forever; Do not forsake the works of Your hands. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 139 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 O LORD, You have searched me and known me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 You know my sitting down and my rising up; You understand my thought afar off. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 You comprehend my path and my lying down, And are acquainted with all my ways. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For there is not a word on my tongue, But behold, O LORD, You know it altogether. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 You have hedged me behind and before, And laid Your hand upon me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is high, I cannot attain it. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Where can I go from Your Spirit? Or where can I flee from Your presence? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 If I ascend into heaven, You are there; If I make my bed in hell, behold, You are there. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 If I take the wings of the morning, And dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, \cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Even there Your hand shall lead me, And Your right hand shall hold me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 If I say, "Surely the darkness shall fall on me," Even the night shall be light about me; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Indeed, the darkness shall not hide from You, But the night shines as the day; The darkness and the light are both alike to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For You formed my inward parts; You covered me in my mother's womb. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 I will praise You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Marvelous are Your works, And that my soul knows very well. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 My frame was not hidden from You, When I was made in secret, And skillfully wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 Your eyes saw my substance, being yet unformed. And in Your book they all were written, The days fashioned for me, When as yet there were none of them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 How precious also are Your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them! \cf1\up13\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 If I should count them, they would be more in number than the sand; When I awake, \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 I am still with You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 Oh, that You would slay the wicked, O God! Depart from me, therefore, you bloodthirsty men. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 For they speak against You wickedly; Your enemies take Your name in vain.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 Do I not hate them, O LORD, who hate You? And do I not loathe those who rise up \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 against You?\line\cf1\up13\fs16 22\cf0\up0\fs26 I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them my enemies.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 23\cf0\up0\fs26 Search me, O God, and know my heart; Try me, and know my anxieties; \cf1\up13\fs16 24\cf0\up0\fs26 And see if there is any wicked way in me, And lead me in the way everlasting. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 140 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Deliver me, O LORD, from evil men; Preserve me from violent men,\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Who plan evil things in their hearts; They continually gather together for war. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 They sharpen their tongues like a serpent; The poison of asps is under their lips.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; Preserve me from violent men, Who have purposed to make my steps stumble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 The proud have hidden a snare for me, and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set traps for me.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I said to the LORD: "You are my God; Hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD. \cf1\up13\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 of battle. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not grant, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; Do not further his wicked scheme, Lest they be exalted.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 "As for the head of those who surround me, Let the evil of their lips cover them;\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Let burning coals fall upon them; Let them be cast into the fire, Into deep pits, that \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 they rise not up again. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Let not a slanderer be established in the earth; Let evil hunt the violent man to overthrow him." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 I know that the LORD will maintain The cause of the afflicted, And justice for the poor. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Surely the righteous shall give thanks to Your name; The upright shall dwell in Your presence. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 141 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 LORD, I cry out to You; Make haste to me! Give ear to my voice when I cry out to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let my prayer be set before You as incense, The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Set a guard, O LORD, over my mouth; Keep watch over the door of my lips.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not incline my heart to any evil thing, To practice wicked works With men who \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 work iniquity; And do not let me eat of their delicacies. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the righteous strike me; It shall be a kindness. And let him rebuke me; It shall be as excellent oil; Let my head not refuse it. For still my prayer is against the deeds of the wicked. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Their judges are overthrown by the sides of the cliff, And they hear my words, for they are sweet. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Our bones are scattered at the mouth of the grave, As when one plows and breaks up the earth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 But my eyes are upon You, O GOD the Lord; In You I take refuge; Do not leave my soul destitute. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Keep me from the snares they have laid for me, And from the traps of the workers of iniquity. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, While I escape safely. \par
\cf1\b\f0\fs32 PSALM 142 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I cry out to the LORD with my voice; With my voice to the LORD I make my supplication. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare before Him my trouble.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, Then You knew my path. In the way in \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 which I walk They have secretly set a snare for me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Look on my right hand and see, For there is no one who acknowledges me; Refuge has failed me; No one cares for my soul. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I cried out to You, O LORD: I said, "You are my refuge, My portion in the land of the living. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Attend to my cry, For I am brought very low; Deliver me from my persecutors, For they are stronger than I. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Bring my soul out of prison, That I may praise Your name; The righteous shall surround me, For You shall deal bountifully with me." \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 143 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Hear my prayer, O LORD, Give ear to my supplications! In Your faithfulness answer me, And in Your righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not enter into judgment with Your servant, For in Your sight no one living is righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 For the enemy has persecuted my soul; He has crushed my life to the ground; He has made me dwell in darkness, Like those who have long been dead. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me; My heart within me is distressed.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I remember the days of old; I meditate on all Your works; I muse on the work of Your \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 hands.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 I spread out my hands to You; My soul longs for You like a thirsty land.Selah \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Answer me speedily, O LORD; My spirit fails! Do not hide Your face from me, Lest I be like those who go down into the pit. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Cause me to hear Your lovingkindness in the morning, For in You do I trust; Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, For I lift up my soul to You. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Deliver me, O LORD, from my enemies; In You I take shelter.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Teach me to do Your will, For You are my God; Your Spirit is good. Lead me in the \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 land of uprightness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Revive me, O LORD, for Your name's sake! For Your righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 In Your mercy cut off my enemies, And destroy all those who afflict my soul; For I am Your servant. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 144 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Blessed be the LORD my Rock, Who trains my hands for war, And my fingers for battle-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 My lovingkindness and my fortress, My high tower and my deliverer, My shield and the One in whom I take refuge, Who subdues my people under me. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 LORD, what is man, that You take knowledge of him? Or the son of man, that You are mindful of him? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Man is like a breath; His days are like a passing shadow.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Bow down Your heavens, O LORD, and come down; Touch the mountains, and they \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 shall smoke.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Flash forth lightning and scatter them; Shoot out Your arrows and destroy them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Stretch out Your hand from above; Rescue me and deliver me out of great waters, From the hand of foreigners, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Whose mouth speaks lying words, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 I will sing a new song to You, O God; On a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 You, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The One who gives salvation to kings, Who delivers David His servant From the deadly sword. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, Whose mouth speaks lying words, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood-- \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; That our daughters may be as pillars, Sculptured in palace style; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 That our barns may be full, Supplying all kinds of produce; That our sheep may bring forth thousands And ten thousands in our fields; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 That our oxen may be well laden; That there be no breaking in or going out; That there be no outcry in our streets. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 Happy are the people who are in such a state; Happy are the people whose God is the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 145 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 I will extol You, my God, O King; And I will bless Your name forever and ever. \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Every day I will bless You, And I will praise Your name forever and ever.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; And His greatness is unsearchable. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 One generation shall praise Your works to another, And shall declare Your mighty acts. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 I will meditate on the glorious splendor of Your majesty, And on Your wondrous works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Men shall speak of the might of Your awesome acts, And I will declare Your greatness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 They shall utter the memory of Your great goodness, And shall sing of Your righteousness. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is gracious and full of compassion, Slow to anger and great in mercy. \cf1\up13\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is good to all, And His tender mercies are over all His works.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 All Your works shall praise You, O LORD, And Your saints shall bless You. \cf1\up13\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom, And talk of Your power, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 To make known to the sons of men His mighty acts, And the glorious majesty of His kingdom. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, And Your dominion endures throughout all generations. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD upholds all who fall, And raises up all who are bowed down.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 The eyes of all look expectantly to You, And You give them their food in due \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 season. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 You open Your hand And satisfy the desire of every living thing. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is righteous in all His ways, Gracious in all His works. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD is near to all who call upon Him, To all who call upon Him in truth. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 He will fulfill the desire of those who fear Him; He also will hear their cry and save them. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD preserves all who love Him, But all the wicked He will destroy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 21\cf0\up0\fs26 My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD, And all flesh shall bless His holy name Forever and ever. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 146 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD, O my soul!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 While I live I will praise the LORD; I will sing praises to my God while I have my \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 being. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Do not put your trust in princes, Nor in a son of man, in whom there is no help. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 His spirit departs, he returns to his earth; In that very day his plans perish. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Happy is he who has the God of Jacob for his help, Whose hope is in the LORD his God, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Who made heaven and earth, The sea, and all that is in them; Who keeps truth forever, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Who executes justice for the oppressed, Who gives food to the hungry. The LORD gives freedom to the prisoners. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD opens the eyes of the blind; The LORD raises those who are bowed down; The LORD loves the righteous. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD watches over the strangers; He relieves the fatherless and widow; But the way of the wicked He turns upside down. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD shall reign forever-- Your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 147 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! For it is good to sing praises to our God; For it is pleasant, and praise is beautiful. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD builds up Jerusalem; He gathers together the outcasts of Israel. \cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 He heals the brokenhearted And binds up their wounds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 He counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by name. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Great is our Lord, and mighty in power; His understanding is infinite. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD lifts up the humble; He casts the wicked down to the ground. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; Sing praises on the harp to our God, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who prepares rain for the earth, Who makes grass to grow on the mountains. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 He gives to the beast its food, And to the young ravens that cry.\line\cf1\up13\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 He does not delight in the strength of the horse; He takes no pleasure in the legs of \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 a man. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 The LORD takes pleasure in those who fear Him, In those who hope in His mercy. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 For He has strengthened the bars of your gates; He has blessed your children within you. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 He makes peace in your borders, And fills you with the finest wheat. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 15\cf0\up0\fs26 He sends out His command to the earth; His word runs very swiftly. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 16\cf0\up0\fs26 He gives snow like wool; He scatters the frost like ashes; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 17\cf0\up0\fs26 He casts out His hail like morsels; Who can stand before His cold? \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 18\cf0\up0\fs26 He sends out His word and melts them; He causes His wind to blow, and the waters flow. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 19\cf0\up0\fs26 He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His judgments to Israel. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 20\cf0\up0\fs26 He has not dealt thus with any nation; And as for His judgments, they have not known them. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 148 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights! \cf1\up13\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His hosts!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all you stars of light!\line\cf1\up13\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him, you heavens of heavens, And you waters above the heavens! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them praise the name of the LORD, For He commanded and they were created. \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 He also established them forever and ever; He made a decree which shall not pass \f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs26 away. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD from the earth, You great sea creatures and all the depths; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 Fire and hail, snow and clouds; Stormy wind, fulfilling His word; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 Mountains and all hills; Fruitful trees and all cedars; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 10\cf0\up0\fs26 Beasts and all cattle; Creeping things and flying fowl; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 11\cf0\up0\fs26 Kings of the earth and all peoples; Princes and all judges of the earth; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 12\cf0\up0\fs26 Both young men and maidens; Old men and children. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 13\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them praise the name of the LORD, For His name alone is exalted; His glory is above the earth and heaven. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 14\cf0\up0\fs26 And He has exalted the horn of His people, The praise of all His saints-- Of the children of Israel, A people near to Him. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 149 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Sing to the LORD a new song, And His praise in the assembly of saints. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Let Israel rejoice in their Maker; Let the children of Zion be joyful in their King. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Let them praise His name with the dance; Let them sing praises to Him with the timbrel and harp. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 For the LORD takes pleasure in His people; He will beautify the humble with salvation. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the saints be joyful in glory; Let them sing aloud on their beds. \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, And a two-edged sword in their hand, \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 7\cf0\up0\fs26 To execute vengeance on the nations, And punishments on the peoples; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 8\cf0\up0\fs26 To bind their kings with chains, And their nobles with fetters of iron; \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 9\cf0\up0\fs26 To execute on them the written judgment-- This honor have all His saints. Praise the LORD! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\fs32 PSALM 150 \cf0\b0\fs24\par
\cf1\b\up13\f1\fs16 1\cf0\b0\up0\fs26 Praise the LORD! Praise God in His sanctuary; Praise Him in His mighty firmament! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 2\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him for His mighty acts; Praise Him according to His excellent greatness! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 3\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him with the sound of the trumpet; Praise Him with the lute and harp! \f0\fs24\par
\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 4\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him with the timbrel and dance; Praise Him with stringed instruments and flutes! \f0\fs24\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\up13\f1\fs16 5\cf0\up0\fs26 Praise Him with loud cymbals; Praise Him with clashing cymbals! \cf1\up13\fs16 6\cf0\up0\fs26 Let everything that has breath praise the LORD. Praise the LORD!\par
}
 